# A Privacy-Preserving Incentive Mechanism for Mobile Crowdsensing Based on Blockchain
**Authors:** Fei Tong , Member, IEEE, Yuanhang Zhou , Kaiming Wang , Guang Cheng , Member, IEEE,

## Abstract

Abstract—Mobile crowdsensing (MCS) is an efficient approach for large-scale sensing data collection by leveraging the mobility and capability of mobile devices. To avoid the weaknesses of traditional centralized crowdsensing systems, blockchain has been introduced to secure the process of MCS. This article studies a location-aware scenario, where privacy of users are protected in a blockchain- based MCS system, and formulates an optimization problem to maximize the coverage given a budget based on reverse auction. An incentive mechanism named MMCB is further proposed and implemented as smart contracts in blockchain to solve the problem. We demonstrate that the mechanism achieves a set of desirable properties, including computation efficiency, individual rationality, truthfulness, budget feasibility, approximation, and privacy preservation. To protect the identity privacy of workers and obtain anonymity, a linkable ring signature is employed in smart contracts. In addition, a Pedersen commitment is utilized for protecting workers’ bid profile and the submitted sensing data is encrypted and only accessible to the requester. We implement a prototype system based on the Hyperledger Fabric platform, and the evaluation results show that our privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture improves 36.2% coverage and reduces 53.1% payment with better security level compared to the stateof-the-art schemes.

Index Terms—Blockchain, incentive crowdsensing, privacy preservation. mechanism, mobile ## INTRODUCTION

OWADAYS, human-carried devices have gained popularity and become indispensable to people’s daily life, which enable mobile crowdsensing (MCS) to be developed rapidly as N Manuscript received 2 November 2022; revised 17 January 2024; accepted 18 February 2024. Date of publication 22 February 2024; date of current version 13 November 2024. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61971131, Grant 62172093, and Grant U22B2025, and in part by “Zhishan” Scholars Programs of Southeast University. (Corresponding authors: Fei Tong; Yuanhang Zhou.) Fei Tong and Guang Cheng are with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 211189, China, and with the Purple Mountain Laboratories for Network and Communication Security, Nanjing 211111, China, and also with the Jiangsu Provincial Engineering Research Center of Security for Ubiquitous Network, Nanjing 211189, China (e-mail: ftong@seu.edu.cn; chengguang@seu.edu.cn). Yuanhang Zhou and Kaiming Wang are with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 211189, China (e-mail: 220215212@seu.edu.cn; 220224867@seu.edu.cn). Jianyu Niu is with the Research Institute of Trustworthy Autonomous Systems and the Computer Science and Engineering Department, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518055, China (e-mail: niujy@ sustech.edu.cn). Shibo He is with the College of Control Science and Technology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310013, China (e-mail: s18he@zju.edu.cn). Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TDSC.2024.3368655 an efficient tool for sensing data collection. Traditional mobile crowdsensing consists of three entities: requesters (owners of sensing tasks), workers (performers of sensing tasks), and a centralized platform (manager of crowdsensing system). However, the centralized platform suffers from single point of failure, which means hardware errors, as well as malicious attacks, can paralyse the whole system. To overcome the weakness, blockchain has been introduced to enhance MCS systems [1]. Blockchain-based MCS has stronger security through smart contacts without reliance on trusted third party [2], which has been widely accepted by recent research on crowdsensing [3], [4], [5]. However, insufficient participation has been a core issue in both traditional and blockchain-based MCS so far [6], [7]. Many researchers utilize reputation system in blockchain to incentivize workers and exclude malicious users [2], [3], [8]. Although reputation system helps in supervising malicious workers, it cannot solve the problem of insufficient participants with the weak incentive of credit, which would lead to the failure of sensing tasks. Furthermore, it is necessary to have a mechanism for worker recruitment so that the objective is optimized and the unique requirements (e.g., budget) of crowdsensing are satisfied. The incentive mechanism attracts participation through truthful monetary payments, improving the crowd sensed data through worker selection [6], [9], [10], which is one of the hot research topics in blockchain-based MCS [4], [7], [11], [12]. However, a privacy-related scenario is ignored in blockchain-based crowdsensing research, which is quite common in crowdsensing application [13], [14]. Besides, related studies mainly focus on maximizing the utility of entities [11], [12], leaving out the importance of data quality factors, e.g., coverage among areas in location-based service (LBS). Although blockchain provides a relatively secure environment for crowdsensing, privacy still needs to be preserved; otherwise the participation rate will be restrained. That is to say, a further combination of incentive mechanisms and privacy-preserving methods needs to be studied. In a blockchain-based MCS, all interactions between entities can be realized through smart contacts. The operation process of smart contracts cannot be disturbed or aborted outside, making the output results trustworthy. Besides, incentive mechanism deployed using smart contracts ensures both fairness and consistency, making the result more convincing. However, considering the computation limitation of smart contracts and the high cost they bring (e.g., gas cost in Ethereum [15]), an efficient and 1545-5971 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5072 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 profitable incentive mechanism should be adopted. Furthermore, the realization of the incentive mechanism through smart contracts can bring privacy leakage problem [4], [16], leading to reduction in participation [17]. For example, sensing data containing a submitter’s location may reveal true identity, if the data is matched with the submitter’s accounts. Although existing blockchain platforms (such as Bitcoin [18] and Ethereum) usually adopt pseudonymous accounts for user security, previous studies have shown that the user identity can be revealed after deep inspection on transaction history [19], [20]. In crowdsensing, pseudonymous accounts can be linked with history tasks containing information for track (e.g., location), which largely increases the risk of privacy leakage. To protect users’ identities, an anonymous mechanism with higher security level than the pseudonym should be considered. Besides, sensitive data ought to be concealed through encryption methods. Specifically, user identities, bid profile, and submitted data should be protected and cannot be accessed by invalid users. To reach the aforementioned goals, this paper formulates a novel blockchain-based MCS and proposes an incentive mechanism to maximize a data quality factor known as coverage under a budget implemented by smart contracts. A linkable ring signature is utilized to achieve anonymity for identity protection, and a Pedersen commitment is used for concealing workers’ bid profile. The submitted sensing data is protected from irrelevant users through encryption and key sharing. All these mechanisms are comprehensively and seamlessly combined into the system, forming a privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture. The architecture can effectively maximize the coverage with a theoretical approximation, and ensure privacy goals including sealed user bid profile, anonymity, and data submission security, which is verified by both theoretical proofs and extensive experiments. Our main contributions are as follows. r We design a location-aware blockchain-based MCS system, the goal of which is to maximize the geographic coverage under a given budget. We propose an incentive mechanism to solve the optimization problem and demonstrate that the proposed mechanism satisfies a set of desirable properties. r We design a complete and self-contained incentive mechanism architecture with protocols designed in each phase of MCS with security and privacy preservation mechanisms, without trusted third party. r We make a theoretical security and privacy analysis of the proposed privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture. We also implement the architecture based on the Hyperledger Fabric platform and the obtained evaluation results show its feasibility and efficiency. Roadmap: The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the related work. Section III presents the system model of MCS. We propose our incentive mechanism in Section IV. Section V provides the detailed procedure of our privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture. Section VI presents the privacy and security analysis. The performance analysis is shown in Section VII. Finally, Section VIII concludes the paper. 
## RELATED WORK

### Privacy and Security in Traditional Crowdsensing

The privacy and security issue has been one of the research hotspots in crowdsensing [21]. Privacy leakage mostly occurs when workers submit data with private information like location in LBS, decreasing workers’ enthusiasm for participation. Besides, evil-minded workers may submit malicious data to wreck the crowdsensing system. In traditional crowdsensing, Yang et al. [22] utilized kanonymity to incentivize participation in an anonymity set. They consider the case where different users have different privacy requirements. Restuccia et al. [23] proposed a scalable secure trust-based framework FIDES based on mobile security agents and JÃ¸sang’s trust model with three kinds of attack models. Li et al. [24] designed a scheme realized by trusted third party and a scheme combined of blind signature and commitment techniques to incentivize workers with privacy preservation. However, existing solutions either rely on centralized trusted party or consume large resources for privacy preserving. 
### Privacy Preservation in Blockchain

Blockchain provides a strongly secure environment for various applications by decentralization. However, due to the openness of blockchain, transactions in plaintext is available to all users in the system, thus privacy issue remains to be unsolved for blockchain-based systems. There have been many information concealment methods based on cryptography in blockchain, such as zero-knowledge proof [25], homomorphic encryption [26], secure multi-party computation [27], commitment scheme [28], attribute-based encryption [29] and differential privacy [30]. Some methods are widely applied in different fields. However, for crowdsensing, most schemes are not suitable for usage without adequate modification because of the limited computation capability of mobile devices and privacy requirements. 
### Incentive Mechanisms in Blockchain-Based Crowdsensing

Incentive mechanism plays a significant role in crowdsensing for improving participation and quality of sensed data. Research on incentive mechanism design is essential in both traditional and blockchain-based crowdsensing. There have been a number of researches on incentive mechanism design in crowdsensing using blockchain. [4] proposes a privacy-preserving incentive mechanism for vehicular crowdsensing based on budget-limited reverse auction using zeroknowledge proof and Pedersen commitment. However, the incentive mechanism can neither select workers according to their contribution nor obtain truthfulness. [7] combines a qualitybased incentive mechanism with k-anonymity privacy protection, ignoring the importance of information concealment. Both [4] and [7] consider the incentive mechanism design and privacy preservation, but the proposed incentive mechanisms lack an effective worker selection algorithm, and the privacy-preserving mechanisms are incomplete. [11] designs auction-based incentive mechanisms for multiple objectives in Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN 5073 TABLE I COMPARISON OF PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISMS IN BLOCKCHAIN FOR CROWDSENSING Fig. 1. Blockchain-based mobile crowdsensing process. crowdsourcing. [12] proposes an incentive mechanism aided by a three-stage Stackelberg game for blockchain-based MCS. [31] incentivizes participation through Bitcoin rewards for crowdsensing data collection, whose payment is in a privacypreserving manner. All these studies utilize blockchain to improve the security of crowdsensing system, but they neglect many possible privacy issues. Besides, some studies only focus on the incentive mechanism design, ignoring the implementation in blockchain, which means they may be inapplicable considering the limitation of smart contracts (e.g., computation limit and cost). Table I summarizes the comparison of our work with the aforementioned studies. Some studies [2], [3], [8] build reputation management systems to incentivize workers in blockchain. [2] designs a complete framework called CrowdBC for crowdsourcing using blockchain with detailed protocol design. [32] proposes a similar blockchain-based platform ZebraLancer to secure the crowdsourcing, which overcomes data leakage and identity breach. Different from our concepts of incentive mechanisms, reputation management systems can help choose more appropriate workers and prevent malicious users, but they cannot improve the participation to solve the core issue in crowdsensing, which means the incentive mechanism design is indispensable. 
## SYSTEM MODEL

### Reverse Auction-Based Crowdsensing Model

We consider a blockchain-based MCS system consisting of four main roles, as shown in Fig. 1. r Requesters: A requester γ ∈ R (R is the requester set) posts a task set T. T = {t1 , t2 , . . . , tm } includes m sensing tasks. In addition, γ needs to submit the description of tasks with the parameters related to the tasks. After accepting the data collected by the selected workers, γ gives payments to each worker. This paper considers only one requester. r Workers: A worker i ∈ W, where W is the worker set including n workers who are interested in T, competes for tasks to get rewards. Worker i is with a task set Ti , including tasks he/she would like to participate in. r Blockchain: The blockchain serves as the secure computing platform for our mobile crowdsensing system. We assume that the blockchain cannot be controlled by malicious users. The security of the blockchain is built on miners, which are responsible for transaction verification. Only registered users can join the crowdsensing system. r Incentive mechanism: The incentive mechanism is deployed in the blockchain, the objective of which is to select workers and decide payments for each participant. The incentive mechanism is realized by smart contracts. Each worker i submits a bid θi = {Li , Ti , bi } to compete for tasks, where Li is the location of i, Ti is the set of tasks that i would like to participate in, and bi is the bidding price of worker i. Let ci be the true cost of i, which is private and only known by i. Since a worker can collect data in different areas, note that Li can include more than one position. Given the bid profile θ = {θ1 , θ2 , . . . , θn }, the incentive mechanism that runs on the blockchain selects a winner set S ⊆ W and determines the payment for each worker. The winners will be paid according to their contributions towards the tasks. Let P = (p1 , p2 , . . . , pn ) be the payment profile, where pi is the payment of i. If i is a loser, pi = 0. The utility of worker i can be calculated by the difference between the payment and his/her true cost, i.e.,  pi − ci , if i ∈ S . (1) ui = 0, if i ∈ /S Location-aware scenarios are often seen in MCS systems [33], [34], [35], [36], where the coverage function, which shows the distribution of participants (or sensed data) among different geographic locations, is a common optimization goal for MCS [37], [38], [39], [40]. Consider that a set of sensing tasks exists for detecting traffic congestion in a city. The data collected in the center of the city are usually more valuable than those in suburbs, and the data collected in the area where little data have been collected are usually more valuable than those collected in the area where Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5074 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 TABLE II FREQUENTLY USED SYMBOLS the sever has got considerable data. In this circumstance, our objective ought to be maximizing the coverage of distribution on different areas. We define the coverage function as follows  hk log (1 + λnk (S)) , (2) f (S) = tk ∈T where hk is the weight of task tk determined by the location importance and value of the task, nk (S) is the number of executions of task tk by workers in set S, and λ is a system parameter that controls the gradient of the diminishing return. Let lk and vk denote the location importance and the value of task tk , respectively. Then hk is calculated as hk = εlk + (1 − ε) vk , (3) where ε is a balancing parameter. The objective of the incentive mechanism is to maximize the coverage function given a fixed budget B. The problem is referred to as Maximizing Coverage under Budget constraint (MCB) problem, which can be formulated as  (εlk + (1 − ε) vk ) log (1 + λnk (S)) max S tk ∈T s.t. S ⊆ W  pi ≤ B (4) i∈S The symbols frequently used are summarized in Table II. 
### Adversary Model and Assumptions

The adversary model and security assumptions considered in this article are shown as below. a) Curious requesters: This kind of users will honestly follow our defined protocols, but they are curious about the sensitive information in crowdsensing system, including the identity of the owner of a bid profile, the identity of winners, and the submitted data. They will submit true sensing tasks with a real budget, honestly acquire the submitted sensing data and evaluate such data as normal or malicious. However, they may spy on the transactions in blockchain and try to learn useful information. b) Malicious workers: Malicious workers tend to obtain more payment through misbehaviors like false information reporting, breaking the protocols, and so on. They may submit false bid profile in the bidding phase to gain advantage. They may submit useless data or even do not complete the submission and obtain a payment. They are also interested in the true identity of honest workers and the true information of sensing data. c) Malicious miners: Malicious miners try to obtain virtual coins aside from their jobs. They may violate the designed protocols and collude with other entities to break the normal execution of smart contracts in blockchain. 1) Sufficient bidders: It is assumed that the number of bidders is large enough to ensure that the incentive mechanism can normally select winners and computes payments from these bidders. 2) Majority honest security: Our crowdsensing system largely relies on a secure blockchain. We assume that the blockchain is secure, and attackers cannot control the majority power of blockchain. 3) Cryptographic methods security: We assume that all adopted cryptographic methods are secure. Detailedly, Ellipticcurve Cryptography is secured that a ciphertext encrypted with a public key can only be decrypted with the corresponding private key. Such an assumption is based on the NP hardness of Elliptic Curve Discrete Logarithm Problem. The adopted hash functions are secure, i.e., these functions satisfy preimage resistance, second-preimage resistance, and collision resistance [41]. The symmetric encryption method is secure, so that a ciphertext encrypted with a key can only be decrypted with the exact same key. 4) Ledger system security: We assume that a secure ledger system exists in the applied blockchain to support the assert transfer between valid users with valid keys. Such a ledger system adopts a kind of virtual coin that can be converted to currency. 
### Design Goals

Our objective is to design an incentive mechanism satisfying the following desirable properties: a) Computational efficiency: An incentive mechanism M is computationally efficient if the winner set S and the payment profile P can be computed in polynomial time. b) Individual rationality: Each worker will have a nonnegative utility when bidding its true cost, i.e., for ∀i ∈ W, ui ≥ 0. c) Truthfulness: An incentive mechanism is truthful if no workers can improve its utility by submitting a false cost. In Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN other words, submitting a bid equaling to the true cost is a weakly dominant strategy for a bidder. d) Budget feasibility: An incentive mechanism is budget feasible  if the total payment is lower or equal to the budget B, i.e., i∈S pi ≤ B. e) Approximation: The objective of our incentive mechanism is to maximize the coverage f (S). We say that a mechanism is α-approximate if the mechanism outputs a winner set S such that f (S) ≤ α · f (SOP T ), where SOP T is the optimal solution. Specially, if α is a constant, we say that the mechanism has constant approximation. f) Privacy preservation: The incentive mechanism is privacypreserving if all privacy goals can be obtained. 
### Privacy Goals

a) Bid profile protection: A worker’s bidding price should be concealed in the bidding phase to ensure the fairness of the auction-based incentive mechanism. If others’ bidding prices are open, a subsequent worker will gain advantages in the auction by adjusting its bidding price according to others’ prices. Besides, the information in the bid profile (i.e., bidding price, task set and location) is private, which should be concealed or unlinkable to the owner to ensure the privacy of workers. b) Anonymity: The identities of workers should be protected. No one can identify the real identities through the crowdsensing procedure. Specially, even the requester cannot match the corresponding worker with the workers’ submitted bid profile or sensing data. c) Data submission security: The submitted sensing data of workers should be encrypted and only acquirable to the corresponding requester. Besides, due to the limit of the storage size and cost, sensing data may be inappropriate to be stored in the blockchain. In Section IV, the incentive mechanism is designed for solving the MCB problem in aspect of optimization. While in Section V, we further design the detailed protocols for blockchain-based crowdsensing, in which the incentive mechanism is integrated into with privacy preservation. 
## INCENTIVE MECHANISM DESIGN

This section presents the incentive mechanism to solve the MCB problem. First, we analyze the hardness of MCB to tackle the problem by introducing the submodular function. Definition 1: If Ω is a finite set, a submodular function is a set function f : 2Ω → R, which satisfies one of the following equivalent conditions: 1) For each X, Y ⊆ Ω with X ⊆ Y and each x ∈ Ω\Y , we have f (X ∪ {x}) − f (X) ≥ f (Y ∪ {x}) − f (Y ). 2) For each X, Y ⊆ Ω we have f (X) + f (Y ) ≥ f (X ∪ Y ) + f (X ∩ Y ). 3) For each X ⊆ Ω and x1 , x2 ∈ Ω\X (x1 = x2 ), we have f (X ∪ {x1 }) + f (X ∪ {x2 }) ≥ f (X ∪ {x1 , x2 }) + f (X). 5075 Theorem 1: f (S) is submodular, nonnegative and monotone. Proof. For X, Y ⊆ W, X ⊆ Y , and x ∈ W\Y , we have f (X ∪ {x}) − f (X)= tk ∈T hk log (1 + λnk (X ∪ {x}))− tk ∈T hk log(1 + λnk (X))= tk ∈T      1+λ(nk (X)+1) k (X∪{x}) hk log 1+λn h log = = k tk ∈Tx 1+λnk (X) 1+λnk (X)    λ tk ∈Tx hk log 1+λnk (X) + 1 , and f (Y ∪ {x}) − f (Y ) =    λ tk ∈Tx hk log 1+λnk (Y ) + 1 . Since X ⊆ Y , we have nk (X) ≤ nk (Y ) for ∀tk ∈ Tx . Then we have 1+λnλk (X) + 1 ≥ 1+λnλk (Y ) + 1 for ∀tk ∈ Tx . Due to the monotonicity of logarithmic function, we have f (X ∪ {x}) − f (X) ≥ f (Y ∪ {x}) − f (Y ). According to Definition 1, f (S) is submodular. Since for every task tk , hk log(1 + λnk (S)) is no less than 0, f (S) is nonnegative, and the monotonicity is obvious. Thus the proof has been completed.  Since the objective function f (S) is submodular, nonnegative and monotone, MCB problem is an instance of submodular function maximization under a budget constraint, which is a well-known NP-hard problem that has been widely studied [42]. Recall that there are limitations on the smart contracts, including the efficiency problem, the cost of running smart contracts, and so on. We design an incentive Mechanism for Maximizing Coverage under Budget constraint (MMCB) as shown in Algorithm 1, based on Chen’s random mechanism [43] for winner selection with greedy-based approach (the worker recruitment phase), and modified proportional share allocation rule [42] for truthful payment ensurance under budget constraint (the payment calculation phase). MMCB is quite efficient for realization and obtains a constant approximation theoretically. First, MMCB picks out the workers whose bidding prices are no more than the budget, denoted as W∗ . Then, with probability 0.4 (line 3, Algorithm 1), the mechanism selects a single winner, which has the largest value towards coverage function f (S). The payment towards this winner is the budget. With probability 0.6 (line 6, Algorithm 1), the mechanism executes the worker recruitment phase (lines 7–11, Algorithm 1) and the payment calculation phase (lines 12–20, Algorithm 1). In the worker recruitment phase, MMCB selects winners , where iteratively according to workers’ marginal density fib(S) i fi (S) = f (S ∪ {i}) − f (S) is i’s marginal value when the winner set is S. MMCB continues recruiting workers until e (S) be > 2fBf (S∪{e}) . In the payment calculation phase, for each winner e in the winner set, MMCB executes the worker recruitment phase over W∗ \{e}. The mechanism applies the modified proportional share allocation rule [42] to obtain the critical value of payment to ensure the truthfulness. Theorem 2: MMCB is computationally efficient, individually rational, truthful, budget feasible, and has approximation ratio of 5. Proof: The running time of MMCB is O(n4 m), which is determined by the second situation (line 6). In the worker recruitment phase, the running time is dominated by line 10. The maximum number of winners is n. It takes O(nm) time to Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5076 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 Algorithm 1: MMCB. Input: worker set W, task set T, bid profile θ, and budget B Output: winner set S and payment profile P 1: S ← ∅; P ← 0; W∗ ← {e|be ≤ B}; 2: x ← a value randomly selected from {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}; 3: If x ∈ {1, 2} then 4: e ← arg maxi∈W∗ f ({i}); S ← {e}; pe ← B; 5: End If 6: If x ∈ {3, 4, 5} then // Worker Recruitment Phase (lines 7–11) ; 7: e ← arg maxi∈W∗ fib(S) i e (S) 8: While be ≤ 2fBf (S∪{e}) do 9: S ← S ∪ {e}; 10: e ← arg maxi∈W∗ \S fib(S) ; i 11: End while // Payment Calculation Phase (lines 12–20) 12: For each e ∈ S do 13: S  ← ∅;  14: e ← arg maxi∈W∗ \{e} fi b(Si ) ; 15: 16: 17: 18: 19: 20: 21: Fig. 2. 
## PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM

ARCHITECTURE  e (S ) While be ≤ 2fBf (S  ∪{e }) do  e ← arg maxi∈W∗ \{S  ∪{e}} fi b(Si ) ;  Procedure of privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture.  fe (S )be e (S ) pe ← max{pe , min{ 2fBf (S  ∪{e}) , fe (S  ) }};    S ← S ∪ {e }; End while End For End If calculate fi (S) given S. Thus finding the current winner e takes O(n2 m) time. The worker recruitment phase takes O(n3 m) time. In the payment calculation phase, a process (lines 15–19) similar to the process shown in lines 8–11 is operated, which takes O(n3 m) time. This process is executed for each winner, the payment calculation phase takes O(n4 m) time. The running time of MMCB is O(n4 m). The individual rationality, budget feasibility, and approximation have been proved in [44]-Corollary 3.5. Thus the proof has been completed.  Note that the payment phase which replays the greedy approach is a little complicated for smart contracts to run. The randomized algorithm reduces the average running workload for smart contracts. Furthermore, MMCB can maximize the quality factor coverage with a constant approximation, improving the quality of sensing data and ensuring the expected result of blockchain-based MCS. In conclusion, MMCB can handle the MCB problem nicely and is appropriate to be realized by smart contracts. The next step is to design the detailed protocols of the crowdsensing procedure with the proposed incentive mechanism and reach the privacy and security goals. This section presents the detailed protocol design of the privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture, combining the incentive mechanism proposed in Section IV and the applied cryptographic methods with detailed crowdsensing procedure in blockchain. ### Overview of the Architecture

The proposed architecture consists of the following phases (the phases end with a suffix “*” will be discussed individually in the following subsections, and for the phases end without a suffix “*”, only brief descriptions are provided to save space, since they can be readily realized), which are also summarized in Fig. 2. Registration: All users including requesters and workers have to register on the blockchain before participating in crowdsensing to obtain credentials (i.e., private and public key pairs) with a user ID (viewed as pseudonym). In this paper, we utilize Elliptic-curve Cryptography (ECC) [45] based on elliptic curve (EC) as the public-key cryptography for key management. The cryptographic methods for other purposes in this paper, such as linkable ring signature and Pedersen commitment, are also realized based on ECC. Each requester or worker will generate a key pair including his/her public and private key when registering, without providing true identity. A requester or worker i’s public and private key are denoted as P U i and P Ri . To verify the validity of the generated key pair, a Schnorr signature [46] is attached. If the Schnorr signature is verified and the public key P U i has not been adopted, the registration succeeds. Then, the user (worker or requester) obtains a user ID acting as a pseudonym and the public key is written in the ledger along with a hash value. The credentials can be updated periodically to ensure user’s security. Task posting: After registration, a requester can post his/her crowdsensing tasks through invoking a Task Posting Contract. With the signature of the requester on the transaction, a miner Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN TABLE III STRUCTURE OF TASK POSTING TRANSACTION can verify the validity of the operation. Once the crowdsensing tasks are verified, workers can access the detailed information of the tasks to choose intentional tasks. After posting the last task, a budget B is also given by the requester indicating the payment capability to recruit workers for these tasks. Each sensing task contains information including task name, task location and task description. Particularly, the task location is denoted as a number (or numbers) according to the area division determined in advance. With the attached digest, it can be found if the information is distorted. The identity of requester is also included so that workers can obtain requester’s public key for usage in next phases. Again, the validity of the transaction can be checked by verifying the Schnorr signature. The structure of the task posting transaction is shown in Table III. Bidding*: After registration, workers can select tasks to participate. After deciding the tasks to apply and the bidding price, a worker i collects his/her bid θi and submits the concealed bid anonymously through Bidding Contract. All values in the bid profile are concealed as commitments sent to the smart contracts without leaking the true values, whose security is ensured by Pedersen commitment scheme [47], which allows one to commit a chosen number hidden from others. The bidding phase ends after a given time, which means workers cannot bid any more. Instead of a Schnorr signature, a linkable ring signature is attached for verification, which can be verified without disclosing the true signer among a formed ring for anonymity. [48] designs a Privacy Preserving Biometric Authentication for anonymous authentication in healthcare based on Cryptonote ring signature technique [49]. The property of linkability allows one to reveal whether two signatures are signed by the same user with his/her private keys. We adopt the Back’s scheme of linkable ring signature [50], which is a modified version of Linkable Spontaneous Anonymous Group [51]. The feasibility of the scheme has been verified in [52]. Worker recruitment*: After the bidding phase ends, all bidders have to reveal their true bids. The submitted bids will be checked with the corresponding commitments by the smart contract. After revealing the bids and excluding invalid bidders, the incentive mechanism will receive the input data (i.e. worker set, bid profile and other parameters) and be triggered after a assigned time. The selection algorithm designed in Section IV determines the winners. The payments to winners are calculated as well. All results will be publicized to the blockchain. The running procedure of IM (Incentive Mechanism) Contract is automatical and cannot be disturbed, but can be configured. 5077 Data submission*: After the declaration of winners in the worker recruitment phase, the winners complete sensing tasks and submit the corresponding data anonymously with a linkable ring signature. Concretely, data are saved in Inter-Planetary File System (IPFS) [53], the address and digest of which are stored in blockchain for authentication. The new generated ring signature will be linked with the old one, which shows the relevancy of anonymous identities. The submitted sensing data will be encrypted using a kind of symmetric encryption, whose encryption key is shared using a secure way through the Data Submission Contract. The IPFS need no trust setup, as the digest can verify the correctness of stored data. Payment: After acquiring all desired sensing data from the IPFS and checking the integrity of data, the requester pays winners as the payment calculation algorithm computes with the aid of ledger system. However, if a worker submitted malicious data or did not complete the submission, the payment towards this worker will be canceled. The detailed design of ledger system for payment is beyond the scope of this paper. 
### Bidding Phase

After registration, a worker can bid on the blockchain. Considering a worker i who is interested in several crowdsensing tasks combining a task set Ti , he/she can invoke the Bidding Contract to bid for tasks. The bid of worker i is formed as θi = {Li , Ti , bi }. All three elements in the triple are private, which should be protected from both malicious users and curious users in blockchain. Instead of providing the precise location, i only submits its located area numbers denoted by Li . Ti includes several task IDs indicating workers’ intention. bi is a bidding price. Therefore, all three elements can be in the form of numbers. To conceal the real value of the three elements, Pedersen commitment is adopted. For a value v to be concealed, a commitment C(r, v) = rG + vH is calculated, where r is a blind factor, and G and H are two base points. The commitments are submitted instead of true values when bidding. The commitments will not be revealed unless the bidding phase ends. That it to say, because of the unconditionally hiding property of Pedersen commitment, there is no way for an observer to learn any useful information about the true value from a commitment, ensuring the fairness of the bidding phase. However, since the commitments are to be revealed, the privacy problem still exists. If the true bids are revealed on the blockchain by bidders, all observers on blockchain can relate an opened bid including location, task set and bidding price with a pseudonym, causing the privacy leakage. However, as the bid profile is also the input of incentive mechanism, which is written as a contract, it is impossible to conceal the bid profile and ensure the run of incentive mechanism simultaneously with normal smart contracts. To overcome such issue, we adopt the linkable ring signature, which can conceal a true signer among a group. Assume that a worker i wants to participate. i first needs to generate his/her bid θi , then commitments of values in the bid are generated. Then, the worker begins to generate a linkable ring signature. Since all workers have to register before taking part in Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5078 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 TABLE IV STRUCTURE OF BIDDING TRANSACTION crowdsensing, whose information is also written on blockchain, worker i randomly selects a number of other workers’ public keys. These chosen workers and i forms a ring without the aid of any other users, whose ring size is predetermined (e.g., 10). Bidder i only needs to submit the commitments and attach a generated ring signature to the transaction to obtain the anonymity when bidding. The structure of bidding transaction can be found in Table IV. The generation procedure of elements in bidding transaction (called Bidding Application) is shown in Algorithm 2, where function Random (line 3) outputs an arbitrary legal value as the blind factor, SaveT oLocal (lines 6 & 16) saves the content for further usage locally, ReadLedger (line 10) reads other workers’ public keys from the blockchain for ring signature generation in GenerateRingSignature (line 11), and InvokeContract (line 12) is used for contracts invoking. Besides, in order to avoid a second bid from a single worker, for a new generated ring signature on a bid, if the key image I is the same as an already existing key image, the new signature will be linked and discarded. After verifying the validity, a new user ID U IDjA will be generated for this anonymous user j (who is worker i indeed), which is used as an identifier for key image management and has no relation with the pseudonym (i.e., U IDj ). When the time exceeds the predetermined limitation, workers cannot bid any more and the worker recruitment phase shall begin. 
### Worker Recruitment Phase

After the bidding phase ends, all bidders need to invoke a Reveal Bid Contract to submit the true bid. In this phase, all submitted bids are not encrypted but in plaintext. Still, the ring signature ensures the anonymity of bidders, so that even though the bids are opened on the blockchain, it is still impossible for anyone to figure out the true owner of a revealed bid. The procedure of Reveal Bid Contract is illustrated in Algorithm 3. Given all desired elements of an anoymous worker j, the Reveal Bid Contract first verifies all commitments of j by reading the corresponding content from the Bidding Contract through function EvaluateContract. If any commitment is invalid, the bidder will be excluded from the anonymous worker set as this bidder submits false bid information. Then, bidders’ capability is checked by collating the locations and task set to see if a bidder can perform the tasks spatially. After all bids are revealed, the anonymous worker set WA will be generated as the set of all bidders excluding invalid workers whose commitments do not pass the verification, whose task set is not consistent with Algorithm 2: Bidding Application. Input: worker i, true bid θi Output: a bool variable indicating the status of request 1: Let Ci = ∅ be the set of i’s commitments; 2: For each true value v in true bid θi = {l1 , l2 , . . . , t1 , t2 , . . . , b i } 3: rv ← Random(); 4: C(v, rv ) = rv G + vH; 5: Ci ← Ci ∪ {C(v, rv )}; 6: SaveT oLocal(v, rv ); 7: End For 8: size = 10; //can be configured 9: Let P U be the set of public keys; 10: P U ← ReadLedger(“W orkerP ublicKey”, size − 1); 11: σ ← GenerateRingSignature(P U, size, P U i , P Ri ); 12: j ← InvokeContract(“Bidding”, Ci , σ); 13: If j = ∅ then 14: return false; 15: Else 16: SaveT oLocal(j); 17: return true; 18: End if the location information, or do not finish the reveal procedure. The bid of each worker j ∈ WA is revealed and correct, whose information is written into blockchain through the function P utState. Let θ A be the anonymous bid profile containing all workers’ bids. WA and θ A will be sent to the incentive mechanism implemented by smart contract. After revealing the bids of anonymous users and collecting the bid profile, WA and θ A will be transferred, and the incentive mechanism will start automatically after a given time period. This procedure is realized by smart contracts. Note that the task set T and the budget B have been determined in the task posting phase given by the requester, which are also pre-sent to the incentive mechanism as part of the input. The incentive mechanism is written as a smart contract, which is immutable and cannot be modified. However, as the proposed MMCB includes a randomized algorithm, which is hard for smart contract to accomplish as the details of smart contracts are public known, which means a security random number generator is needed and the random seed should be secure and available on the blockchain. However, such requirements are of great difficulties considering potential attacks. To overcome such issue in this scheme, the random value x is generated by the requester honestly and sent to the IM Contract, which does not influence the fairness of incentive mechanism but ensure the consistency. Besides, to make the incentive mechanism more applicable, the values of important parameters can be determined by the requester with an input. Specifically, the balancing parameter ε, system parameter λ, and the value, location importance of tasks can be customized in a given range (such value range ensures the valid output) and sent to the incentive mechanism contract together with x. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN Algorithm 3: Reveal Bid Contract. Input: anonymous worker j, revealed bid θj∗ Output: a bool variable indicating the status of request 1: Let Cj be the set of j’s commitments; 2: Cj ← EvaluateContract(“Bidding”, j); 3: if Cj = ∅ then 4: return false; 5: For each revealed value v in bid set θj∗ = {l1 , l2 , . . . , t1 , t2 , . . . , bj } 6: Let r be the corresponding blind factor; 7: Let C(v, r) be the corresponding commitment; 8: If C(v, r) = rG + vH then 9: Commitment is invalid; 10: Return false; 11: End If 12: End For 13: Check the capability of l1 , l2 , · · · and t1 , t2 , · · · ; 14: If not consistent then 15: Return false; 16: Else 17: θjA ← {l1 , l2 , . . . , t1 , t2 , . . . , bj }; 18: P utState(“AnonymousW orker”, j, θjA ); 19: Return true; 20: End If Considering the limitation of smart contracts (i.e., computation limit and cost), we improve some details when implementing the incentive mechanism by contract. To reduce the running cost of the IM Contract, storage of elements inside the incentive mechanism is dynamic and well-orgnized. Besides, since the worker recruitment phase and payment phase shares a similar ranking procedure to find the worker with maximum marginal value, the results of ranking can be recorded and reused in the next time, which saves computation load but brings more storage cost. Generally, the computational cost of proposed MMCB is not very huge for smart contracts (c.f., Section VII-C). The IM Contract runs until it obtains the results, which are winner set S and payment profile P, and the results will be written on the blockchain. Each bidder can check the result to see if he/she is chosen as a winner with the anonymous user ID. If so, he/she needs to finish the tasks and submit the data for the calculated payment. 
### Data Submission Phase

As the worker recruitment phase has decided the winners, workers can check the result to see if they are selected. Winners finish their tasks by collecting sensing data and execute the submission through invoking the Data Submission Contract. Since the data can be large in storage, they are encrypted through a symmetric encryption algorithm denoted as E. The encrypted data should be sent to IPFS for storage, while the corresponding address and digest are encrypted with the same way and saved in the blockchain so that the requester only needs to check the data on blockchain for authentication and verification. 5079 TABLE V STRUCTURE OF DATA SUBMISSION TRANSACTION Since the identity of worker who submits the data is unknown to the requester, a shared key of the symmetric encryption algorithm needs to be attached to the transaction and should be accessible only to the requester. The worker randomly generates a one-time private key P Rφ , and the shared key of symmetric encryption is calculated using this private key and requester’s public key as P Rφ P U γ = P Rφ P Rγ G = P Rγ P U φ , which can also be calculated through the requester’s private key P Rγ , so that the shared key can only be obtained by the requester. The one-time private key can be the same as the one in the bidding phase theoretically; however, for security, it is recommended that a new one can be generated. The encryption key is a hash of the shared key. The encrypted sensing data denoted as EHs (P Rφ P U γ ) {tk ||data} is stored in IPFS while the corresponding address and digest are encrypted and saved in blockchain to be decrypted by the requester. With the digest, the requester can check the integrity of the data. Again, the transaction is signed with a ring signature, in which the key image can be linked with an old one (in the bidding price phase) for matching an anonymous worker j, and the true identity of j stays still unknown to the requester. In this phase, the linked ring signature will not be discarded. Instead, the linkability enables the verification of an anonymous user’s accomplishment of all the tasks, by checking his/her task set in the bidding phase and the submitted data. If a worker does not finish all the tasks, the payment can be reduced or even canceled. Table V shows the structure of data submission transaction. The procedure of acquiring data is as follows. The requester checks a data submission transaction, and calculates the shared key with the given one-time public key and his/her private key. The encryption key is computed through hashing. With this key, the requester can decrypt the address to obtain the submitted data. With the decrypted digest, the requester can verify the validity of the data. Since the requester is honest while workers can be malicious, requester is responsible for verifying the status of submitted data as normal or malicious. A malicious worker will be punished and will not receive the scheduled payment. 
## SECURITY AND PRIVACY ANALYSIS

### Privacy Analysis

User Authentication: In our crowdsensing system, all users including requesters and workers have to register to obtain credentials. The register contract will check the legality of credentials to ensure that no user with invalid credentials can participate in the crowdsensing. Furthermore, in each phase of the crowdsensing process, the user has to attach a signature Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5080 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 generated with the correct private key. A malicious user will be refused with a fake key. Bid Profile Protection: In our crowdsensing system, a worker’s bid is formed as θi = {Li , Ti , bi }. Each value in the bid is concealed using Pedersen commitment, which satisfies both unconditionally hiding and computationally binding. That is to say, it is impossible for an attacker to obtain any useful information about the true value from a generated commitment, which ensures the bid profile protection in the bidding phase. Besides, a malicious worker is also unable to make an advantageous bid according to submitted commitments of others’ bidders since the existence of blind factors in the commitments. In the next phase (i.e., worker recruitment), the bids will be opened for verification on smart contracts and run of incentive mechanism, whose expose is essential and inevitable. However, as the anonymity is obtained in this scheme, the owner of a bid can not be determined by an attacker, ensuring the privacy of bid profile. If a worker falsely reports the bidding price, he/she cannot improve the utility as the proposed incentive mechanism is truthful (i.e., no worker can improve his/her utility by reporting a false bid price), which means bidding truthfully is a weakly dominant strategy for bidders. If the worker distorts the location information and task set, he/she will be unable to complete the sensing tasks physically. Without a submit of right sensing data, the payment towards this worker will be canceled, making the malicious behaviors unprofitable and meaningless. Anonymity: In our crowdsensing system, all users obtain the pseudonyms when registering. The regular update of pseudonym can improve the security. However, the risk of user identity leakage still exists. Since the private information (i.e., bid) and the valuable sensed data are linked with the pseudonym and are accessible to the requester, the pseudonym is not safe enough. By introducing the linkable ring signature in the bidding phase, all users including the requester cannot figure out the identity of the bidder from the ring. Even though a malicious requester succeeds in obtaining the bid information of an anonymous user, he/she cannot match the information with a pseudonym. The ring signature satisfies the following properties, which ensures the anonymity theoretically. Unconditional anonymity: Attackers cannot find the true signer among the ring. The possiblity of finding the true signer is not beyond 1/n, where n is the ring size. Unforgeability: A user who is not a ring member cannot generate a valid ring signature in a formed ring. Similarly, when submitting the sensed data, the attached ring signature prevents the observer from finding the true owner of the submitted data. Besides, the linkability of the ring signature ensures that a worker can only bid once in the bidding phase, but the worker can be linked in the data submission phase with the anonymous identity in the bidding phase. Data Submission Security: In our crowdsensing system, the data are saved in IPFS to save the storage of the blockchain, and the IPFS does not have to be trustable. With the digest and address written on the blockchain, the requester can find the corresponding data and check the integrity of the data. The data is encrypted with a secure shared key computed from a generated one-time key that can only be obtained by the requester. Since the generated key is for one-time use, the encrypted data cannot be decrypted by anyone else except the requester. With the ring signature, data submission transaction can be verified anonymously. Since the submitted data will be checked for normality, where workers with poor-quality data will be punished and obtain no payment, malicious workers are unable to get free-riding payments unless they responsibly complete the sensing job. Incentive Mechanism Security: The incentive mechanism in the crowdsensing system is written as a contract and cannot be modified, while the detailed algorithm is public. The input includes the worker set, the bid profile and some parameters. The (anonymous) worker set and bid profile come from the Reveal Bid Contract, and the parameters are given by the requester, or follows the default setting. The execution of the incentive mechanism is automatic and cannot be disturbed, ensuring the safe run of the incentive mechanism. Since the proposed incentive mechanism is individually rational and truthful, the proposed incentive mechanism architecture is fair for all workers to bid. The output is written on the blockchain directly which cannot be revised by anyone else, ensuring the impartiality of worker recruitment. Since the security and privacy goals described in Section III-C are all accomplished as analyzed, we have the following theorem. Theorem 3: MMCB is privacy-preserving. To conclude, our scheme obtains all the desired privacy goals, which has improved the privacy level for crowdsensing compared to state-of-the-art papers. Such rigorous privacy goals are sufficient for most crowdsensing systems with privacy concerns. Besides, our scheme can be extended to other applications with similar challenges. 
### Security Analysis

Prevention of false-reporting: Definition 2: If malicious workers cannot obtain payment with less effort (than normal workers) or even without effort through any of the following misbehaviors: (1) Making a fake bid with false bidding price or task set, (2) Submitting false sensing data, and (3) Do not finish the data submission, we say that our scheme prevents false-reporting attacks. Theorem 4: Our proposed scheme prevents false-reporting attacks. Proof: We respectively analyse the possible misbehaviors of false-reporting workers: (1) Making a fake bid. If a worker gives a false task set which includes tasks that he/she cannot accomplish and the worker is recruited, he/she will be unable to offer high quality data to pass requesters’ evaluation, thus the payment of the dishonest worker will be canceled. If a worker gives a false bidding price unequal to the true cost, he/she still cannot improve the utility as our incentive mechanism is truthful, according to Theorem 2. (2) Submitting false data. If a worker submits data that are false, useless, and far from the ground truth, such data will be evaluated as low quality by the requester. Such worker will obtain no payment as the punishment. (3) Do not Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN finish the submission. If so, the requester will report that the workers’ absence, and the payment will be canceled. As a result, our scheme prevents false-reporting attacks.  No single point of failure and no trusted third party: Our blockchain-based architecture for crowdsensing gets rid of the traditional centralized platform and the trust. With the majority honest security assumption, the miner nodes reach a consensus in blockchain without offering any trust. That is to say, our scheme prevents single point of failure, and needs no trusted third party. Prevention of replay attack: An attacker may perform replay attacks by repeatedly sending the intercepted requests in phases. However, in our scheme, all requests from users (workers and requesters) have to be authenticated before taking the corresponding actions, in which the contained timestamp will be checked to ensure the security, and the replay request will be refused. In addition, to avoid repeated registration of malicious attackers, the registrant’s ID (like IP and so on) will be recorded. Thus our system prevents replay attacks. 
## PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

### Experimental Setup

We implement a prototype system of the proposed scheme based on the Hyperledger Fabric v2.3 platform [54]. The experiment runs on a Ubuntu 20.04 virtual machine equipped with 50 GB memory. The host machine is a Windows machine equipped with a i9-7900X 3.30 GHz CPU and 128 GB memory. Smart contracts (implemented as chaincode in Hyperledger Fabric) are written in Javascript.1 We choose Ed25519 [55] as the public signature scheme, where the hash function is SHA-512. AES-256 [56] is selected as the symmetric encryption algorithm in the data submission phase. Our scheme is compared against SPPIM [4] and CrowdBC [2]. These two schemes both design protocols for crowdsensing or crowdsourcing with privacy and security consideration. For fair comparison, we adopt the same public key scheme and encryption scheme in the comparison algorithms (if exist). For the incentive mechanism, the default setting is set as follows. The number of workers n is set as 100. The number of tasks m is set as 20. The size of a worker’s task set is randomly selected from [5, 10], and the tasks are random. The balancing parameter is set as 0.5. The location importance and value of task are both in the range [1, 4] with accuracy 0.01. The system parameter λ is set as 0.8. The budget is set as 100,000. The bidding prices are randomly selected from the auction data set [57], which contains 5,017 bid prices. We only use the bid prices in range [100, 500]. The numbers of workers, tasks and budget will be varied when further studying the performance of incentive mechanism. The default settings of parameters are listed in Table VI. 
### Computation Cost in Each Phase

1) Time Cost of Contracts: We implement all contracts described in Section V in the Hyperledger Fabric and evaluate the average time cost on each transaction with the growth of 1 Our implementation code can be found in https://github.com/zhouyh1999/ MMCBcode. 5081 TABLE VI DEFAULT SETTINGS OF PARAMETERS IN IM Fig. 3. The average on-chain time cost of contracts vs. number of transactions: (a) Register/Task Posting/IM/Payment (b) Bidding/Reveal Bid/Data Submission. the number of transactions in terms of different contracts, and the results are shown in Fig. 3. It can be observed that the average running time of each transaction increases when the number of transactions goes up. However, the increase is slight for most situations, except for the IM Contract. Considering the comprehensive calculation in MMCB, it is normal that the time cost grows with the increasing transaction concurrency. However, in a real application, it is not likely that such an amount of usage exists as the incentive mechanism ought to be invoked for only once in one crowdsensing procedure, which means the IM Contract will not face the situation of too many concurrent transactions. We draw the results of time cost of all contracts into two figures according to the magnitude. It can be found in Fig. 3(a) that the time costs of the Register Contract, Task Posting Contract, IM Contract and Payment Contract are small, and only the time cost of the IM Contract exceeds 25 ms. In contrast, the time costs of the Bidding Contract, Reveal Bid Contract and Data Submission Contract are large, as shown in Fig. 3(b). This is because the procedure of verifying a linkable ring signature is time consuming by contrast in the Bidding Contract and Data Submission Contract. However, considering the complete anonymity the ring signature brings, such a time cost is worthwhile. The time cost of the Reveal Bid Contract is longer since the number of the ciphertexts to be decrypted and the number of the commitments to be verified are large, while the actual time of revealing one bid is quite short. Besides, since the verification needs no more interaction between the application and contract, we can conclude that the time cost within [280 ms, 330 ms] is not that long for real-world usage. 2) Time Cost of Phases: Having tested the time cost of contracts, we measure the time cost of requests executed in different phases. Such an execution time includes the time cost on both contracts and applications. For example, the Register Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5082 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 TABLE VII TIME COST OF EACH PHASE COMPARED TO OTHER SCHEMES Fig. 4. Execution time of phases vs. number of requests: (a) Register/Task Posting/Payment. (b) Bidding/Worker Recruitment/Data Submission. Contract verifies the validation of the public key and related signature, while the generation of key pairs happens in the Register Application. The results of the time taking to execute all requests with different number of requests for the different phases described in Section V are shown in Fig. 4. Similarly, we divide the results into two figures. It can be seen from Fig. 4(a) that the register, task posting and payment phases cost short time for accomplishment (within 10 seconds even when 100 requests concurrently happen). While the results for the bidding, worker recruitment and data submission phases are much longer, as shown in Fig. 4(b). Actually, the time cost of generating a linkable ring signature and that of verifying such a signature are nearly of the same size, the theoretical procedure of which can be found in [50], leading to the long running of the bidding and data submission phases. Recall that the worker recruitment phase includes both revealing bid and incentive mechanism, such time cost is evident. Again, with the growth of request number, the average time cost increases a bit. The line charts in Fig. 4 show the growth rate of the execution time. The worker recruitment phase which contains the running of incentive mechanism has the largest growth rate. 3) Time Cost Comparison Between Schemes: After testing the performance of our scheme under different levels of transaction concurrency, we compare the time cost of our results with other two schemes, as shown in Table VII. It can be found that our scheme has better performance in the register and task post phases compared to the other two schemes. This is because the registration in SPPIM is too complicated, which needs additional interaction between the user and the blockchain, and in CrowdBC, the reputation of users has to be initialized in registration and much information has to be recorded. The time cost of the worker recruitment and data submission phases is larger in comparison due to the usage of linkable ring signature. However, our scheme obtains complete anonymity of bidders by using ring signature, while SPPIM and Fig. 5. Performance of incentive mechanisms vs. number of workers (n): (a) Coverage function (left y-axis)/Winner number (right y-axis). (b) Total payment (left y-axis)/Overpayment ratio (right y-axis). CrowdBC only adopt the conventional pseudonym. Moreover, our incentive mechanism shows great superiority compared to the one in SPPIM in terms of theoretical properties. Recall that the incentive mechanism in SPPIM is not truthful, and the selection strategy of winners is casual. We will explore the numerical performance in the next section, which convinces that such time cost is worthwhile considering the benefit it brings. The performance of the payment phase is almost the same for all the three schemes. The most significant differences of our scheme from the other two schemes are the introduction of ring signature and the design of incentive mechanism, which also largely increase the time cost. However, as discussed before, the ring signature brings the anonymity while the incentive mechanism with desired properties incentivizes the participation and maximizes the coverage. The total time cost of all phases for our scheme is 1,276 ms, which is still acceptable for actual application. 
### Performance of Incentive Mechanism

Since the performance of incentive mechanism strongly influences the effects of crowdsensing, we further explore the performance of MMCB in comparison with SPPIM, in terms of the metrics including coverage function, winner number, and total payment. Besides, we design a new metric called overpayment ratio to measure the frugality quantitatively, which is as the total payment divided by the total cost, i.e., defined  p / i∈S i i∈S bi . All measurements are averaged over 100 evaluation instances. 1) Impact of the Number of Workers: We vary the number of workers from 100 to 600. The obtained results are shown in Fig. 5. It can be observed that the coverage function, which is the optimization goal in this paper, obtained by MMCB is much larger than SPPIM, as MMCB carefully selects winners according to the contribution towards the crowdsensing using the greedy approach. In the default settings, MMCB obtains 35.8% Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN Fig. 6. Performance of incentive mechanisms vs. budget (B): (a) Coverage function (left y-axis)/ Winner number (right y-axis). (b) Total payment (left y-axis)/Overpayment ratio (right y-axis). more coverage function than SPPIM does. From Fig. 5(a), we can find that MMCB recruits more workers than SPPIM. In fact, the winner number is closely related to the strategy of payment. With the increase of n, the coverage function of MMCB grows while the winner number has the same variation. This is because when there are more workers, MMCB can select winners with larger marginal value to maximize the coverage, which helps the increase of both coverage function and winner number. Since SPPIM does not have a similar selection procedure, the coverage function and winner number fluctuate slightly with the increasing n. It can be observed from Fig. 5(b) that the total payment of MMCB tends to be smaller with the growth of workers. This is because the critical payment in the payment calculation phase gets smaller averagely when there are more workers with larger contribution to be chosen. The overpayment ratios of both MMCB and SPPIM fluctuate slightly when n increases because of the selection rule. Recall that MMCB recruits more winners than SPPIM in all settings, while the total payment is still smaller for MMCB, which shows its superiority. The overpayment ratio of MMCB is also much smaller than that of SPPIM. 2) Impact of Budget: Then, we vary the budget from 40,000 to 140,000. As shown in Fig. 6(a), the winner number of both MMCB and SPPIM increases stably with the increase of budget. This is obvious since the incentive mechanism can spend more on recruitment with more money, which also leads to the growth of coverage function. From Fig. 6(b), we can see that the total payment increases stably when the budget grows. The overpayment ratio increases as well for both incentive mechanisms. This is because the incentive mechanisms will select more winners, causing the rise in payment and overpayment ratio. Recall that the payment of SPPIM is not truthful, which means the bidders’ false bid price may wreck the crowdsensing procedure. Still, our incentive mechanism outperforms the compared algorithm in terms of coverage function, total payment and overpayment ratio. Specifically, MMCB can improves about 36.2% coverage function and reduces about 53.1% payment compared to SPPIM averagely in all settings. 
## CONCLUSION

In this article, we proposed a privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture for mobile crowdsensing based on blockchain. First, we studied a location-aware mobile crowdsensing system and formulated the Maximizing Coverage under Budget constraint problem. By analyzing the difficulty of such a 5083 problem, an incentive mechanism MMCB is proposed, which satisfies a set of desirable properties, including computation efficiency, individual rationality, truthfulness, budget feasibility and constant approximation. To meet the privacy and security requirements, the privacy-preserving incentive mechanism architecture is proposed with each phase detailed. Specifically, a linkable ring signature is adopted to obtain anonymity. Pedersen commitment is used for concealing the workers’ bids. Data submission is secured through storage on IPFS. We evaluated the performance of the proposed scheme based on the Hyperledger Fabric platform, and the obtained results show that the computation cost is acceptable and the performance of designed mechanism show great superiority on coverage function. REFERENCES [1] C. Cai, Y. Zheng, Y. Du, Z. Qin, and C. Wang, “Towards private, robust, and verifiable crowdsensing systems via public blockchains,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 1893–1907, Jul/Aug. 2021. [2] M. Li et al., “CrowdBC: A blockchain-based decentralized framework for crowdsourcing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 1251–1266, Jun. 2019. [3] H.-T. Wu, Y. Zheng, B. Zhao, and J. Hu, “An anonymous reputation management system for mobile crowdsensing based on dual blockchain,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 9, pp. 6956–6968, May 2022. [4] L. Wang, Z. Cao, P. Zhou, and X. Zhao, “Towards a smart privacypreserving incentive mechanism for vehicular crowd sensing,” Secur. Commun. Netw., vol. 2021, 2021, Art. no. 5580089. [5] F. Li, X. Li, Y. Fu, P. Zhao, and S. Liu, “A secure and privacy preserving incentive mechainism for vehicular crowdsensing with data quality assurance,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., 2021, pp. 1–5. [6] X. Zhang, Z. Yang, Z. Zhou, H. Cai, L. Chen, and X. Li, “Free market of crowdsourcing: Incentive mechanism design for mobile sensing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 3190–3200, Dec. 2014. [7] J. Wang, M. Li, Y. He, H. Li, K. Xiao, and C. Wang, “A blockchain based privacy-preserving incentive mechanism in crowdsensing applications,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 17545–17556, 2018. [8] W. Zhang, Y. Luo, S. Fu, and T. Xie, “Privacy-preserving reputation management for blockchain-based mobile crowdsensing,” in Proc. Annu. IEEE Int. Conf. Sens. Commun. Netw., 2020, pp. 1–9. [9] D. Yang, G. Xue, X. Fang, and J. Tang, “Crowdsourcing to smartphones: Incentive mechanism design for mobile phone sensing,” in Proc. Annu. Int. Conf. Mobile Comput. Netw., 2012, pp. 173–184. [10] Y. Zhou, F. Tong, and S. He, “Bi-objective incentive mechanism for mobile crowdsensing with budget/cost constraint,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 223–237, Jan. 2022. [11] X. Liang, Z. Yan, and R. Kantola, “Gaimmo: A grade-driven auction-based incentive mechanism with multiple objectives for crowdsourcing managed by blockchain,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 18, pp. 17488–17502, Sep. 2022. [12] J. Hu, K. Yang, K. Wang, and K. Zhang, “A blockchain-based reward mechanism for mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Computat. Social Syst., vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 178–191, Feb. 2020. [13] R. K. Rana, C. T. Chou, S. S. Kanhere, N. Bulusu, and W. Hu, “Earphone: An end-to-end participatory urban noise mapping system,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE Int. Conf. Inf. Process. sensor Netw., 2010, pp. 105–116. [14] “Proz,” 2024. [Online]. Available: www.proz.com [15] G. Wood et al., “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger,” Ethereum Project Yellow Paper, vol. 151, no. 2014, pp. 1–32, 2014. [16] J. Weng, J. Weng, J. Zhang, M. Li, Y. Zhang, and W. Luo, “Deepchain: Auditable and privacy-preserving deep learning with blockchain-based incentive,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18, no. 5, pp. 2438–2455, Sep./Oct. 2021. [17] Y. Liu, T. Feng, M. Peng, J. Guan, and Y. Wang, “DREAM: Online control mechanisms for data aggregation error minimization in privacy-preserving crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. dependable secure Comput., vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 1266–1279, Mar./Apr. 2021. [18] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Decentralized Bus. Rev., 2008, Art. no. 21260. [Online]. Available: https: //bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf,2008.bitcoin.org. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 5084 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 6, NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 2024 [19] F. Reid and M. Harrigan, “An analysis of anonymity in the Bitcoin system,” in Security and Privacy in Social Networks, Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2013, pp. 197–223. [20] A. Biryukov, D. Khovratovich, and I. Pustogarov, “Deanonymisation of clients in Bitcoin P2P network,” in Proc. ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun. Secur., 2014, pp. 15–29. [21] Z. Chen, C. Fiandrino, and B. Kantarci, “On blockchain integration into mobile crowdsensing via smart embedded devices: A comprehensive survey,” J. Syst. Archit., vol. 115, 2021, Art. no. 102011. [22] D. Yang, X. Fang, and G. Xue, “Truthful incentive mechanisms for k-anonymity location privacy,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., 2013, pp. 2994–3002. [23] F. Restuccia and S. K. Das, “FIDES: A trust-based framework for secure user incentivization in participatory sensing,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. World Wireless Mobile Multimedia Netw., 2014, pp. 1–10. [24] Q. Li and G. Cao, “Providing privacy-aware incentives for mobile sensing,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Pervasive Comput. Commun., 2013, pp. 76–84. [25] S. Goldwasser, S. Micali, and C. Rackoff, “The knowledge complexity of interactive proof-systems,” in Providing Sound Foundations for Cryptography: On the Work of Shafi Goldwasser and Silvio Micali. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2019, pp. 203–225. [26] R. L. Rivest et al., “On data banks and privacy homomorphisms,” Foundations Secure Computation, vol. 4, no. 11, pp. 169–180, 1978. [27] Y. Zhu, X. Song, X. Xue, B. Qin, and G. Liu, “Smart contract execution system over blockchain based on secure multi-party computation,” J. Cryptologic Res., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 246–257, 2019. [28] G. Brassard, D. Chaum, and C. Crépeau, “Minimum disclosure proofs of knowledge,” J. Comput. System Sci., vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 156–189, 1988. [29] J. Bethencourt, A. Sahai, and B. Waters, “Ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy, 2007, pp. 321–334. [30] C. Dwork et al., “The algorithmic foundations of differential privacy,” Foundations Trends Theor. Comput. Sci., vol. 9, no. 3–4, pp. 211–407, 2014. [31] T. Dimitriou and A. Michalas, “Incentivizing participation in crowdsensing applications through fair and private bitcoin rewards,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 129004–129018, 2022. [32] Y. Lu, Q. Tang, and G. Wang, “ZebraLancer: Private and anonymous crowdsourcing system atop open blockchain,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Distrib. Comput. Syst., 2018, pp. 853–865. [33] M. A. Rahman and M. S. Hossain, “A location-based mobile crowdsensing framework supporting a massive ad hoc social network environment,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 76–85, Mar. 2017. [34] S. He, D.-H. Shin, J. Zhang, and J. Chen, “Toward optimal allocation of location dependent tasks in crowdsensing,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., 2014, pp. 745–753. [35] X. Wang, R. Jia, X. Tian, and X. Gan, “Dynamic task assignment in crowdsensing with location awareness and location diversity,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., 2018, pp. 2420–2428. [36] W. Gong, B. Zhang, and C. Li, “Location-based online task scheduling in mobile crowdsensing,” in Proc. IEEE Glob. Commun. Conf., 2017, pp. 1–6. [37] Z. Zheng, F. Wu, X. Gao, H. Zhu, S. Tang, and G. Chen, “A budget feasible incentive mechanism for weighted coverage maximization in mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 16, no. 9, pp. 2392–2407, Sep. 2017. [38] L. Li et al., “Privacy preserving participant recruitment for coverage maximization in location aware mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 21, no. 9, pp. 3250–3262, Sep. 2022. [39] J. Wang, F. Wang, Y. Wang, D. Zhang, L. Wang, and Z. Qiu, “Socialnetwork-assisted worker recruitment in mobile crowd sensing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 18, no. 7, pp. 1661–1673, Jul. 2019. [40] H. Xiong, D. Zhang, G. Chen, L. Wang, and V. Gauthier, “CrowdTasker: Maximizing coverage quality in piggyback crowdsensing under budget constraint,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Pervasive Comput. Commun., 2015, pp. 55–62. [41] P. Rogaway and T. Shrimpton, “Cryptographic hash-function basics: Definitions, implications, and separations for preimage resistance, secondpreimage resistance, and collision resistance,” in Proc. Int. Workshop Fast Softw. Encryption, 2004, pp. 371–388. [42] Y. Singer, “Budget feasible mechanisms,” in Proc. IEEE Annu. Symp. Foundations Comput. Sci., 2010, pp. 765–774. [43] N. Chen, N. Gravin, and P. Lu, “On the approximability of budget feasible mechanisms,” in Proc. Annu. ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 2011, pp. 685–699. [44] P. J. Khalilabadi and É. Tardos, “Simple and efficient budget feasible mechanisms for monotone submodular valuations,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Web Internet Econ., 2018, pp. 246–263. [45] V. S. Miller, “Use of elliptic curves in cryptography,” in Proc. Conf. Theory Application Cryptographic Techn., 1985, pp. 417–426. [46] C.-P. Schnorr, “Efficient identification and signatures for smart cards,” in Proc. Conf. Theory Application Cryptol., 1989, pp. 239–252. [47] T. P. Pedersen, “Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure verifiable secret sharing,” in Proc. Annu. Int. cryptol. Conf., 1991, pp. 129–140. [48] N. D. Sarier, “Privacy preserving biometric authentication on the blockchain for smart healthcare,” Pervasive Mobile Comput., vol. 86, 2022, Art. no. 101683. [49] N. V. Saberhagen, “Cryptonote V 2.0,” 2013. [50] B. Adam, “Ring signature efficiency,” 2015. [Online]. Available: https: //bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=972541 [51] J. K. Liu, V. K. Wei, and D. S. Wong, “Linkable spontaneous anonymous group signature for ad hoc groups,” in Proc. Australas. Conf. Inf. Secur. Privacy, 2004, pp. 325–335. [52] S. Noether et al., “Ring confidential transactions,” Ledger, vol. 1, pp. 1–18, 2016. [53] J. Benet, “IPFS-content addressed, versioned, P2P file system,” 2014, arXiv:1407.3561. [54] “Hyperledger fabric,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.hyperledger. org/use/fabric [55] S. Josefsson and I. Liusvaara, “Edwards-curve digital signature algorithm (EdDSA),” 2017, doi: 10.17487/RFC8032. [56] J. Daemen and V. Rijmen, “AES proposal: Rijndael,” Nat. Inst. Standards Technol., p. 1, 2003. [57] “Modeling online auctions,” 2020. [Online]. Available: www. modelingonlineauctions.com/datasets Fei Tong (Member, IEEE) received the MS degree in computer engineering from Chonbuk National University, South Korea, in 2011, and the PhD degree in computer science from the University of Victoria (UVic), Canada, in 2016. From December 2016 to December 2018, he was a postdoctoral research fellow with the Department of Control Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University. He is currently an Associate Professor with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University. He is also the vice director with Jiangsu Provincial Engineering Research Center of Security for Ubiquitous Network. His research interests include ad hoc networks, Internet of Things, and ubiquitous networking intelligence and security. He was the Young Researcher of the third Heidelberg Laureate Forum, a track co-chair for IEEE VTC2020-Fall, and a Session Chair for ICPADS2020, IEEE HPSR2019, and EAI QShine2016. Yuanhang Zhou received the bachelor’s degree from the School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, China, in 2021. He is currently working toward the MS degree with the school of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, China. His main research interests include mobile crowdsensing, blockchain, and applied cryptography. Kaiming Wang received the BE degree in network engineering from the School of Software, Henan University, China, in 2022. He is currently working toward the ME degree with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, China. His research interests include blockchain and cyber security. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. TONG et al.: PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVE MECHANISM FOR MOBILE CROWDSENSING BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN Guang Cheng (Member, IEEE) received the BS degree in traffic engineering from Southeast University, in 1994, the MS degree in computer application from the Hefei University of Technology, in 2000, and the PhD degree in computer network from Southeast University, in 2003. He is a full professor with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, China. He has authored or coauthored eight monographs, and produced more than 100 technical papers, including top journals and top conferences like IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, and INFOCOM. His research interests include network security, network measurement, and traffic behavior analysis. He is the director of Jiangsu Cyber Security Association, China, the vice director with China Computer Federation Technical Committee of Internet (CCF TCI), and the vice director with Jiangsu Computer Society, China. He is a distinguished member of CCF. Jianyu Niu (Member, IEEE) received the BEng and MASc degrees from the Department of Electronics and Information, Northwestern Polytechnical University, China, in 2014 and 2017, respectively, and the PhD degree from the School of Engineering, University of British Columbia, Canada, in 2021. He is a research assistant professor with the Southern University of Science and Technology (SUSTech). His research interests include focus on distributed systems, blockchains, and confidential computing. 5085 Shibo He (Senior Member, IEEE) received the PhD degree in control science and engineering from Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China, in 2012. He is currently a professor with the College of Control Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, China. He also serves as the director of the Collaborative Innovation Center for Industrial Cyber-Physics Systems, which is jointly established by the provincial and ministerial authorities, and as the deputy director of the Industrial Control Research Institute. His research focuses on the Internet of Things (IoT) and big data analytics. He has published more than 160 academic papers, including in internationally renowned journals such as PNAS, Nature Communications, IEEE Transactions on Networking, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, etc, as well as flagship conferences like ACM CCS, ACM MobiHoc, IEEE INFOCOM, and IEEE RTSS. He has authored two textbooks and three academic monographs. His research has been cited more than 7500 times by peers on Google Scholar, with more than 4000 citations in the Web of Science Core Collection. He has received several prestigious awards, including the Mid-career Research Achievement Award from the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing, the Young Scientist Award from the Ministry of Education of China, the First Prize in Natural Science from the Ministry of Education of China, the Outstanding Young Researcher Award from the IEEE Communications Society in the Asia-Pacific region, and Best Paper Awards of six international conferences, including IEEE GlobeCom and IEEE TrustCom. He has also served as an editorial board member for five journals and as a Program Committee Chair/Track Chair for conferences such as IEEE Globecom, i-SPAN, IEEE ICC, and ScalCom. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 