# Towards Efficient, Robust, and Privacy-Preserving Incentives for Crowdsensing via Blockchain
**Authors:** Yuanhang Zhou , Fei Tong , Member, IEEE, Chunming Kong , Shibo He , Senior Member, IEEE,

## Abstract

Abstract—With the explosive development of mobile devices, mobile crowdsensing (MCS) has emerged as a promising approach for large-scale sensing data collection. In the research of MCS, blockchain technology has been widely adopted to decentralize the traditional mobile crowdsensing and tackle the problem of single point of failure. Incentive mechanisms are devised to boost participation with fairness and truthfulness. However, to better determine the incentive strategy, participants’ privacy can be disclosed on top of the blockchain and obtained by adversaries during the transmission and execution of user data, leading to serious security issues. In this paper, we propose a two-stage incentive scheme with efficiency, robustness and privacy preservation considered based on the combination of blockchain technology and Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). Detailedly, we design two kinds of smart contracts, where on-chain public contracts support the procedure of general crowdsensing interactions, and off-chain private ones enabled by TEE complete the privacy-preserving computations, including an online incentive mechanism for worker recruitment decisions and a truth discovery algorithm for data aggregation. Recovery mechanism and hash check mechanism are introduced to avoid TEE provider failures and TEE providers’ attacks, respectively. Our scheme is proved to be theoretically secure in terms of private information protection, worker participation anonymity, and data aggregation privacy. Experimental results also verify the feasibility and superiority of our incentive scheme.

Index Terms—Mobile crowdsensing, incentive mechanism, privacy preservation. ## INTRODUCTION

OBILE crowdsensing (MCS) has gained considerable interest and adoption in past years, which leverages the crowd wisdom for sensing data collection. With the popularization of portable devices (e.g., mobile phones, wearables, and M Received 26 November 2024; revised 17 February 2025; accepted 26 February 2025. Date of publication 3 March 2025; date of current version 3 July 2025. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62472088, Grant 62172093, and Grant U22B2025 and in part by the Big Data Computing Center of Southeast University. Recommended for acceptance by E. Ngai. (Corresponding author: Fei Tong.) Yuanhang Zhou, Chunming Kong, and Guang Cheng are with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China (e-mail: 220215212@seu.edu.cn; 220235241@seu.edu.cn; chengguang@seu.edu.cn). Fei Tong is with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China, also with Purple Mountain Laboratories, Nanjing 210096, China, and also with the Jiangsu Province Engineering Research Center of Security for Ubiquitous Network, Nanjing 211806, China (e-mail: ftong@seu.edu.cn). Shibo He is with the College of Control Science and Technology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China (e-mail: s18he@zju.edu.cn). Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TMC.2025.3546941 tablets), whose sensing capacity can be utilized for surrounding data collection, mobile crowdsensing has been applied in diverse fields, including environment detecting [1], [2], traffic monitoring [3], [4], [5], health care [6], [7], and social welfare [8], [9]. A traditional crowdsensing structure consists of requesters (sensing task owners), workers (sensing task performers), and a centralized trusted server (providing crowdsensing platform), which suffers from single point of failure. Blockchain, as a decentralized technology, has been introduced to overcome such an issue and improve the security of crowdsensing system, which has been adopted in many recent research [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15]. A core challenge in MCS is insufficient participation [16]. According to our observation, there exist 72 uncompleted requests that were publicized more than 2 weeks in Mturk [17] on average in Feb. 2024, while each request may include several human intelligence tasks. Among these requests, 44.4% of requests were publicized for more than one month. To tackle such an issue, incentives are designed to attract participation through rewards (e.g., monetary payment [18], virtual coin [19], and social relations [20]). The incentive mechanism uses workers’ information as input and determines the recruitment as well as payment. In fact, there has been some research on incentive mechanism design for crowdsensing with blockchain assistance [21], [22], [23]. However, these studies mainly focus on incentive mechanism design, ignoring some of the security problems brought when executing incentive mechanisms on the blockchain. First, the workers’ information which is used as the input of the mechanism can be private. Privacy leakage exists if the incentive mechanism is executed transparently. Second, the correctness and integrity of the incentive mechanism should be ensured wherever the mechanism is executed. We divide two patterns according to the execution environment. Off-chain execution of incentive mechanisms can mitigate the computation and storage pressure of blockchain. Still, it can be hard to prove the correctness of such complicated logic as such an off-chain running is untrusted. Although existing zero-knowledge proof [24] enables various kinds of logic proof, the procedure can be too timeconsuming with huge computation costs. On-chain execution of incentive mechanisms utilizes smart contracts for security and trust. However, to preserve the private information, which is also to be calculated in the algorithm, cryptographic methods should be adopted, including Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) [25] and Multi-party Computation (MPC) [26], which 1536-1233 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN brings large computation cost and overhead. To conclude, none of the existing schemes can ensure both security and efficiency to realize worker recruitment with incentives in blockchain. Similar issues also appear in truth discovery for crowdsensing, which is a procedure to estimate the ground truth given workers’ submitted sensing data and determine workers’ data quality. This phase can also be viewed as part of the incentive mechanism, which is also ignored by some studies, as the reward calculated in the mechanism should be paid only after verification of workers’ faithfully completion of sensing tasks according to the estimated ground truth, considering the potential strategy and malicious behaviors of workers. Note that existing solutions for truth discovery suffer from the following problems: 1) Privacy leakage with no extra protection; 2) Heavy proof requirements of off-chain execution [27]; and 3) Privacy-preserving methods adoption leading to huge computation cost using Homomorphic Encryption (HE) [28] and communcation overhead using MPC [29] or precision sacrifice with Local Differential Privacy (LDP) [30]. Obtaining both security and high efficiency is an undertaking. In this paper, we study a two-stage incentive scheme for mobile crowdsensing based on blockchain and Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) [31]. The first stage is an incentive mechanism for worker recruitment and payment decisions in the online setting, while the second stage is a truth discovery algorithm for data aggregation and quality estimation. The secure execution of the proposed two methods is guaranteed by the trusted enclave in TEE with privacy preservation. Smart contracts are programs that run on the blockchain [32], which are utilized for the realization of the left functionalities in the proposed crowdsensing interactions. However, simply adopting TEE in our blockchain-based crowdsensing system is far from enough. On one hand, the input and output should be secured as the communication channel can be insecure and disturbed, otherwise privacy can be leaked. On the other hand, many TEE environments suffer from known attacks. For example, Intel Software Guard eXtensions (SGX) [33] suffers from side-channel attacks [34], [35], [36]. Although software and hardware solutions have been proposed [37], [38], it is better to limit the communication between the TEE node and other entities to reduce the risk. To solve the issues, we design a medium contract on the blockchain to interact with the TEE node for sending commands and receiving data. Besides, we adopt key management for authentication in the TEE node to ensure integrity and authority, where threshold cryptography is used for key sharing in case the TEE node fails. Our scheme achieves high efficiency both on-chain and off-chain without huge computation costs and overhead first. Second, stateless design of TEE requires that TEE only performs execution faithfully without using the secure storage, ensuring the robustness of our design. Third, our design is both secure and privacy-preserving in terms of sealed private information, worker participation anonymity, and data aggregation privacy. We also devise mechanisms to handle malicious parties, including requesters, workers, and TEE service providers. Our main contributions are as follows. r We design an online reverse auction-based crowdsensing system with the assistance of blockchain. A two-stage incentive scheme is proposed, consisting of an online 7137 incentive mechanism for worker recruitment, and a truth discovery method for data aggregation and evaluation. r The proposed incentive scheme is implemented based on the combination of blockchain and TEE, obtaining efficiency, robustness, and privacy preservation, without reliance on any trusted third party. Detailed protocols according to the phases in crowdsensing are meticulously designed for ubiquitous applications. r Through theoretical security analysis and experimental results, our proposed incentive scheme is proved to be efficient, feasible, and more advantageous compared to the state-of-the-art schemes in both incentive stages. Organization: The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II, we describe the related work. Then, we present the system model in Section III. Section IV gives the detailed design of our incentives. The analysis of privacy goals and experimental results are presented in Sections V and VI, respectively. Finally, we conclude the paper in Section VII. 
## RELATED WORK

### Incentive Mechanism for MCS

The incentive mechanism plays an important role in crowdsensing so far. According to the system design, we can divide the studies into two categories: traditional crowdsensing and blockchain-based crowdsensing. In traditional crowdsensing where a centralized platform exists, [39] studies three optimization models decided by the number of requesters and bids. For each model, a selection and pricing progress is given. [40] proposes two crowdsensing systems, where the center of the system is the requester or worker. Incentive mechanisms are designed for each system based on the Stackelberg game or auction. Zhang et al. first proposed online incentive mechanisms for mobile crowdsensing, where workers arrive online one by one randomly and user availability changes over time [41]. Zhao et al. investigated an online crowdsensing scenario for maximizing requesters’ utility under the budget constraint [42]. They designed two online mechanisms for two different user arrival models. respectively. The online setting is more appropriate for application than the offline setting, in which workers’ information is known a priori. As for privacy concerns, [43] proposes a privacy-preserving incentive scheme based on differential privacy for app-assisted mobile edge crowdsensing, ensuring private data sensing while managing app quality and encouraging user participation. [44] presents a privacy-preserving user recruitment method for mobile crowdsensing that incorporates sensing quality evaluation. However, the traditional crowdsensing system suffers from single point of failure with reliance on the centralized platform, while the privacy-preserving schemes also require the support of centralization. In blockchain-based crowdsensing where the centralized platform is replaced by blockchain, [21] designs auction-based incentive mechanisms for multiple objectives in crowdsourcing with reputation management. [22] proposes a blockchainbased incentive mechanism based on reverse auction and Softmax regression algorithm to improve the quality of sensing data. However, [21] and [22] ignore the privacy issue inside Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7138 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 the blockchain. [13] designs Stackelberg game-based incentive mechanisms with worker location privacy and proposes a secure off-chain data evaluation process using Paillier Cryptosystem. [45] designs an incentive scheme called FRUIT with privacy preservation using matrix decomposition and proxy re-encryption, and quality awareness using automatic reputation prediction. Note that both [13] and [45] provide incentive mechanisms with comprehensive consideration. They suffer from the following disadvantages: (a) Incomplete recruitment progress. (b) High computation cost and communication overhead using several cryptographic methods. Besides, the online incentive mechanism has never been studied in blockchain-based crowdsensing. Existing online algorithms cannot be adopted directly since realizing online incentives within a blockchain architecture would be very challenging, as it requires ensuring algorithm throughput to achieve real-time computation. Additionally, malicious attackers may target the incentive mechanism based on algorithmic results over different time periods or attempt to infer private data. 
### Truth Discovery for MCS

Truth discovery has been widely applied in crowdsensing communities for data aggregation so that the quality of information (QoI) can be improved [46]. In fact, most truth discovery algorithms can estimate the reliability (i.e., weight) of workers so this procedure can also include data evaluation. Note that truth discovery is quite developed in data mining, the main challenge in truth discovery for crowdsensing lies in the security and privacy aspect. In traditional crowdsensing, since the platform provides a secure environment, privacy can be ensured without any further techniques. However, in blockchain-based crowdsensing, such a privacy issue exists. To tackle the problem, [47] utilizes the Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate the ground truth. However, since the estimation is off-chain and signcryption is adopted to protect privacy, the computation platform has to be trustable. [48] uses ElGamal encryption and verifiable computation to ensure private, correct, and off-chain data aggregation. [49] realizes the data aggregation inside the trusted hardware with the aid of differential privacy and Paillier cryptosystem. [27] proposes a scheme called BRPC, which leverages threshold Paillier cryptosystem for collaborative truth discovery of workers. Off-chain execution mitigates the computation pressure of blockchain but needs more computation to verify the results. On-chain execution of truth discovery mainly utilizes smart contracts for fairness and trust, but can disclose the sensing data since the openness of blockchain, and brings large computation pressure to the blockchain. [28] adopts a privacy-preserving aggregation scheme using HE and smart contracts with fair payments. [30] proposes a smart contract-based privacy-preserving data aggregation using local differential privacy with a qualitydriven incentive mechanism. [29] designs a privacy-preserving quality control mechanism called PPQC, where data aggregation is realized based on MPC protocol design. To conclude, all schemes aforementioned suffer from the following Fig. 1. Blockchain-based mobile crowdsensing process. disadvantages: (1) High computation cost; (2) Much communication overhead; and (3) Precision sacrifice, mainly due to the usage of cryptographic methods. 
### TEE-Assisted Blockchain Applications

TEE has been introduced to assist blockchain applications in terms of privacy-preserving computation off-chain in many scenarios. [50] designs ShadowEth which leverages hardware enclave to ensure the confidentiality of smart contracts based on existing public blockchain. [51] presents Ekiden which leverages TEE to enable efficient confidentiality-preserving smart contracts with data security and high scalability. [52] establishes a private smart contract for collusion resistance based on smart contracts and SGX. Privacy-preserving range query and Merkle proofs are adopted to verify results on-chain. [53] introduces and systematically evaluates the existing works that utilize TEE to implement confidential smart contracts, summarizing the shortcomings of the current works. Several studies have introduced TEE to assist the crowdsensing application. Liang et al. [54] leveraged TEE to cope with the prospective malicious requesters who may publish abnormal crowdsensing requirements. Brahem et al. [55] focused on privacy preservation in crowdsensing data submission and introduced TEE to ensure the l-Completeness property. [56] combines TEE with a public blockchain to support the secure crowdsensing data collection with privacy preservation. However, these schemes ignore the significance of incentive mechanism to boost participation. Besides, their system designs enable many entities to interact with the TEE nodes, largely increasing the risk of being attacked by disguised adversaries. That is to say, though blockchain has been adopted for decentralization, the frequent usage of TEE brings back centralization. Hence a new incentive scheme with new system architecture is needed for decentralized crowdsensing. 
## SYSTEM MODEL

### Crowdsensing Model

Our crowdsensing system consists of the following roles, as shown in Fig. 1. r Requesters: Let R be the requester set. A requester r ∈ R posts a task set Γ = {γ1 , γ2 , . . . , γm } including m tiny tasks. Tiny tasks can be referred to as the specific task Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN requirements and Γ can be viewed as a single task. For example, a task set for reporting traffic congestion levels can include sensing jobs in several streets, where reporting the situation in one street can be viewed as a tiny task. Besides, requester r has a budget B to pay the recruited participants for Γ. r Workers: Let W be the worker set including n workers. A worker i ∈ W arrives at the crowdsensing system online through the worker client. Let ai be the arrival time of i, di be the departure time of i. Worker i can only be recruited when he/she is online. i has a task set Γi ⊆ Γ including all tiny tasks he/she would like to perform. r Blockchain: The blockchain serves as the platform for crowdsensing system providing interactions and smart contracts functionality. Miners on the blockchain are responsible for transaction verification. r Distributed Storage: Distributed storage is used to ease the storage burden of blockchain, providing an off-chain storage platform without providing trust. r Incentive mechanism: Incentive mechanism is an algorithm using workers’ information as input, whose objective is to recruit participants (also called winners) by selection and determine the payments. r Truth discovery algorithm: The truth discovery algorithm collects workers’ sensing data as input, then learns the aggregated data to find the ground truth of tasks. Our blockchain-based crowdsensing system is modeled based on an online reverse auction. Each worker i submits a bid θi = {Γi , bi } when arrival, where Γi is the task set of i, bi is the bidding price, which is the claimed cost of worker i. Let ci be the true cost of i to perform the sensing tasks. ci and di are private, which are only known by worker i. A worker can only be recruited during the online period, while the procedure of completing tasks is independent of this online model. We assume that workers are diplomatic that they may try to improve their utility by reporting a false bidding price bi = ci or strategically determining their arrival time and departure time. Let θ be the bid profile of all workers. Let P = {p1 , p2 , . . . , pn } be the payment profile towards all workers, where pi is the payment of worker i. We define the utility of worker i as the difference between the payment and the true cost, i.e.,  pi − ci , if i ∈ S , (1) ui = 0, if i ∈ /S where S is the winner set including all workers who win the bid (i.e., workers selected for participation). If worker i loses the auction, the utility ui will be zero. Let V (S) be the value function of requester r who posts the sensing tasks. The objective of the incentive mechanism is to select a winner set S to maximize the value function under the budget, i.e., max V (S) S s.t. S ⊆ W  pi ≤ B. i∈S (2) 7139 After the winner selection, the selected workers conduct corresponding tasks and collect data. However, since malicious workers may fake the sensing data to obtain the rewards without effort, a data aggregation procedure is necessary for MCS to obtain the ground truth and evaluate the behavior of each worker with its submitted data, especially in blockchain where users’ true identities are protected. Before evaluating the sensing results of all workers, a process for finding the ground truth is indispensable. Truth discovery procedure can resolve conflicts in noisy data with the calculation of users’ weight according to submitted data, which has been adopted in various scenarios [57]. A classic truth discovery algorithm consists of the following steps. (I) Weight estimation: Each user i’s weight ωi is calculated as the difference between i’s submitted data and the ground truth, which is formulated as ⎛ ⎞  D (xi,j , Tj )⎠ , (3) ωi ← F ⎝ i∈S,γj ∈Γi where F is a monotonically decreasing function outputting a weight given the distance, D is a function for measuring the distance between the current truth and the submitted data. xi,j represents the submitted data of worker i about task γj ∈ Γi and Tj indicates the current truth of task γj . (II) Truth estimation: Given workers’ submitted data and the estimated weight, the truth for task γj is calculated as  ωi · xi,j Tj ← i∈Wj  ωi , (4) i∈Wj where Wj includes all workers who performed task γj . (III) Iterations: the iterations of (I) and (II) span until convergence has been reached or the iterations exceed the limitation. After obtaining the estimated final truth, each worker’s performance can be evaluated as the distance between the truth and their submitted data, to better determine the actual payments and exclude the free-riding workers. Thus our two-stage incentive scheme is organized as follows. Workers bid online to participate in interested tasks, then the incentive mechanism has to decide the recruitment and compute the payments towards winners in an online setting. After the recruitment, the truth discovery algorithm runs in an offline setting as the winners have been determined with the winners’ submitted data and evaluates the performance of each winner. The reward is paid considering both the calculated payment in the incentive mechanism and the evaluation results in truth discovery. The symbols frequently used in this paper are summarized in Table I. 
### Adversary Model

Malicious requesters: Malicious requesters aim to benefit themselves from collecting sensing data with no or little payment less than they should pay, which is also known as false-reporting attacks. They may violate the protocols by misreporting the validity of submitted data or trying to get the results without payment. They are also curious about workers’ privacy, including identity, personal information, and submitted data. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7140 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 TABLE I FREQUENTLY USED SYMBOLS where an enclave is an isolated and encrypted area within the TEE used to store code and data for computation, ensuring it cannot be accessed externally. It is also assumed that the TEE supports secure remote attestation, which is a cryptographic proof that allows external parties to verify if the corresponding output content originates from the TEE. Additionally, this paper assumes that TEE nodes may become unavailable due to attacks or communication errors, as it is common in reality that service providers may not always provide reliable service. However, to ensure the normal operation of the crowdsensing system proposed in this paper, it is required that at least k nodes are available among a total of l + 1 nodes, where one node is already unavailable. Ledger system security: We assume that a secure ledger system exists in the applied blockchain to support the assert transfer between valid users with valid keys. Cryptographic methods security: We assume that all adopted cryptographic methods in this paper are secure according to their security analysis. 
### Design Goals

Malicious workers: Malicious workers tend to obtain payment with misbehavior like false information reporting, breaking the protocols, and so on. They may submit false bid profiles to take advantage. They may submit useless data or even do not complete the sensing tasks but obtain a payment. They are also interested in the true identity of honest workers and the true information of sensing data. Malicious TEE nodes: TEE nodes (i.e., TEE service providers) can control TEE operation and may tamper with the input data (which is obtained by the TEE node from the system and provided to the TEE) and output data (the results provided to the blockchain by the TEE node) to benefit themselves. Due to the security of the TEE, TEE nodes cannot obtain any useful information during the operation of the TEE, but TEE nodes may terminate the operation of the TEE from the outside. 
### Security Assumptions

Majority honest security: We assume that the underlying blockchain supporting our crowdsensing is secure and will not be controlled by adversaries. Most miners are honest that the attackers cannot control the majority power in the consensus. Besides, we assume that most workers are also honest so that the ground truth can be discovered through aggregating all submitted sensing data. TEE security: Assuming the adopted TEE can ensure the integrity and confidentiality of computations within enclaves, In this paper, we propose a two-stage incentive scheme including an online incentive mechanism for worker recruitment and a truth discovery algorithm for data evaluation, which should satisfy the following demands: r Efficient: Considering the potential complexity of online incentive mechanism and data aggregation algorithms, the proposed scheme has to be efficient in taking short computation time and ensuring high throughput, which existing works fail to achieve. r Robust: The designed scheme should be robust against potential failures caused by program crash or network problem and attacks launched by malicious participants in each phase (which are described in Section III-B). Also, the scheme should not suffer from single point of failure. r Privacy-preserving: The proposed scheme should preserve valid users’ privacy according to the goals described in Section III-E. 
### Privacy Goals

Sealed private information: Workers’ bid profiles should be concealed from other users, including the bidding price and task set. The requester’s budget B should be available to no one except the requester. Besides, the identities of both requesters and workers should be protected. Worker participation anonymity: The sensing tasks are related to a specific location sometimes, which may reveal the location information of participated workers. Thus all participants of a sensing task should be anonymous known only by themselves. Data aggregation privacy: The input and output of the data aggregation should be protected so that the input data are only known by corresponding submitters and the output result can only be obtained by the requester. Protecting users’ private information is significant in ensuring the fairness of crowdsensing transactions and users’ rights. Workers’ participation status is a particularly sensitive privacy Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN Fig. 2. Crowdsensing system architecture. aspect, as it may be indirectly disclosed. Therefore, it requires separate discussion. Data aggregation privacy ensures that the sensitive data cannot be obtained by invalid participants, protecting requesters’ rights. 
## DESIGN DETAILS

### Design Overview

The architecture of the proposed crowdsensing system is illustrated in Fig. 2, containing the following components: r Client: There are two kinds of clients for requesters and workers, respectively, which are the programs that run on mobile devices for users to interact with the crowdsensing system for multiple purposes. The requester client enables information query, task release, data acquisition, and so on for the requesters’ operation. The worker client enables information query, bidding, data submission, and so on for workers’ operations. r TEE node: TEE node is actually a TEE service provider who supports the computation inside the offered TEE for the crowdsensing system. TEE node can obtain the interaction content between the hardware enclave and the blockchain, but cannot obtain the private information inside the enclave, even though such enclave is owned by itself. In our crowdsensing system, there is a TEE node selected to perform the privacy-preserving computation, which is named an active TEE node. The left TEE nodes are called to be inactive. r TEE colony: A number of TEE nodes form the TEE colony. TEE nodes inside the colony can communicate with each other, but this only happens in a limited situation. TEE colony is not organized but naturally occurring, and TEE service providers can join the TEE colony for the crowdsensing system. r IPFS node: InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) [58] is a distributed storage system adopted in the proposed scheme for data storage. Entities can interact with an IPFS node to save/acquire data. However, such a storage is not trustable. 7141 The proposed crowdsensing procedure includes the following phases, where our designed incentive scheme is integrated. Fig. 3 gives the details of protocols (The phases with a suffix “∗” will be discussed individually).  1 Initialization∗: In the initialization phase, the blockchain is set up for running the crowdsensing system and contracts are publicized. TEE node generates a secret key skT EE ∈ Fp and a public key pkT EE ∈ Fp for future usage, where Fp is a finite field over prime order p. This key pair is generated inside the trusted enclave that no one including the TEE provider can obtain skT EE . skT EE is shared with other inactive nodes through threshold cryptography, so that the secret key can be recovered collaboratively if the active node fails. Each worker i obtains a pair of credentials (i.e., secret and public key pairs) with an account address (viewed as a pseudonym). Let ski and pki be the secret key and public key of i respectively. The account address is a hash result of the public key. The requester obtains a pair of keys skr and pkr similarly. The credentials can be updated periodically to ensure users’ security.  2 Task release: A requester can post its task set by invoking a Task Release Contract. A task set can include several tiny tasks. The posted information of tasks includes the task list, description, requirements, and so on, which is publicly available on the blockchain after publicization. A hash result of all task information is also attached for workers to see if the information is distorted. A budget B is also submitted by requester r. The validity of this transaction can be checked by verifying the signature signed using requester’s secret key, which is done by the miner. A timestamp is also attached to defend against replay attacks.  3 Bidding: After a task set is posted, a worker can read the task details to decide the participation. After deciding the tasks to apply and the bidding price, a worker i determines its bid θi = {Γi , bi }. The bid is encrypted using TEE’s public key pkT EE that can only be opened inside the hardware enclave, ensuring privacy. Again, the signature is generated for miners to verify the valid identity of the worker. Note that the crowdsensing is under the online setting, the arrival time ai of i is actually the time it submits the bid, and the departure time is the time i goes offline. As the worker is diplomatic, i may strategically select the arrival time and departure time to improve the utility.  4 Recruitment decision∗: As the bidding phase progresses, the crowdsensing system has to decide the recruitment online synchronously. The incentive mechanism running in TEE is responsible for determining whether a bidder is selected as a winner or not and calculating the payment towards this worker according to the task status (i.e., left budget and former bidders’ information (a.k.a, sample worker set)). The interaction between the incentive mechanism and the smart contract on the blockchain is secured while the procedure of the incentive mechanism is secured by the trusted enclave. The output of the incentive mechanism will be sent to the medium contract for publicization on the blockchain, including the recruitment decision, payment, and task status.  5 Data submission: If a worker i is selected as a winner, it performs tasks according to the task set Γi and submits the sensing data with the following steps. First, a one-time secret key Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7142 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 Fig. 3. Detailed algorithms of the protocols in crowdsensing procedure. is generated by i locally denoted by sko , and the corresponding one-time public key is denoted as pko . The shared encryption key eko is calculated as the hash result of sko · pkT EE , which can only be obtained by the trusted enclave which owns the secret key skT EE (computed as skT EE · pko ). The sensing data is symmetrically encrypted using eko and stored on IPFS with an address denoted by Addressxi,j . The address and hash result of the encrypted data are included in the transaction for data acquisition and integrity verification.  6 Data aggregation∗: After all winners finish the data submission, the truth discovery algorithm will start the data aggregation running inside the trusted enclave. By obtaining all Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN sensing data, the ground truth for each task is estimated. The final result will be encrypted using a shared encryption key generated using the requester’s public key, whose procedure is similar to the one in data submission, and sent to the medium contract. Besides, each worker will be evaluated as normal (denoted as “high”) or misbehavior (denoted as “low”) according to their submitted data and the estimated truth. Only normal workers can obtain the payment calculated by incentive mechanism before, and workers with misbehavior will get no reward as punishment.  7 Payment: After the data aggregation phase, the Payment Contract will transfer coins from the requester’s account to the winners’ accounts automatically. After all payments, the remaining budget and the deposit will be returned. 
### Initialization Phase

There are three kinds of smart contracts in the design, which are all deployed in the initialization phase. General contracts and medium contracts are public that run on the blockchain. Private contracts run inside the hardware enclave on TEE node. General contracts are normal smart contracts that support the interactions between user clients (i.e., requester clients and worker clients) and the blockchain. The medium contract is a particular smart contract that is designed to trigger private contracts by publicizing commands and data (public parameters and encrypted private information) on the blockchain. Medium contracts can also receive the output of private contracts from the TEE node and handle such output with further process. Private contracts are programs that run inside the trusted enclave, which are in fact privacy-preserving computations including the incentive mechanism and truth discovery algorithm. Besides, symmetric encryption (D, E) and asymmetric encryption (SD, SE) are also realized to ensure data privacy. In the active TEE node, a pair of keys skT EE and pkT EE are generated inside the enclave, which is used for encrypting the private data and signature generation. Because of the confidentiality of the hardware enclave, skT EE is secured. Preventing TEE node failures through recovery mechanism. If the active TEE node paralyzes due to some reasons (e.g., attacks and communication disturbance) at a stage in crowdsensing, skT EE will be lost, and encrypted data can never be opened, disrupting the whole crowdsensing system, which is indeed a kind of single point of failure. To handle such a problem, two operations are introduced. First, the TEE node is designed to be stateless. That is to say, the TEE node only does the execution of programs without saving any information. All information is saved on blockchain or IPFS, where private data are encrypted using pkT EE only accessible to the enclave on TEE who owns the secret key. Second, threshold cryptography is adopted for sharing the secret key skT EE with other inactive TEE nodes. The classic Shamir’s scheme [59] is as follows. Given a secret sk ∈ Fp , let l be the number of all inactive nodes, and let k be the threshold number which is the minimum number of nodes to recover the secret. The secret sharer (i.e., active TEE node) generates random numbers a1 , a2 , . . . , ak−1 ∈ Fp to form the polynomial g(y) = a0 + a1 · y + a2 · y 2 + · · · ak−1 · y k−1 , where a0 = sk. Then, the secret 7143 sharer randomly selects l numbers y1 , y2 , . . . , yl ∈ Fp and calculates g(y1 ), g(y2 ), . . . , g(yl ). For each inactive node i, secret sharer sends a key share yi , g(yi ) secretly. The secret can be recovered by combining any k different key shares to compute g(0) = a0 = sk through Lagrange’s formula, i.e., bringing these k shares yi , g(yi ) into the following formula: g(y) = ⎧ l ⎨  i=1 ⎩ g(yi ) 1≤j≤l,j=i ⎫ y − yj ⎬ . yi − yj ⎭ (5) The sharing procedure is done by the enclave after key generation. If this active TEE node suddenly fails, the rest TEE nodes in TEE colony can collaboratively recover the secret key skT EE by combining at least k shares, then the work can be continued using skT EE with a new selected active node. Preventing malicious TEE nodes through hash check mechanism. The isolated enclave ensures the integrity and confidentiality of the computation that cannot be distorted by TEE nodes. The remote attestation allows others to verify if the output of the enclave is modified by TEE nodes. However, TEE nodes may attempt to modify the input of the enclave. Since the enclave runs locally, all information needed for computation on-chain is provided by the TEE nodes, giving a chance for TEE nodes to distort the input. To handle such a problem, enclave programs are required to return a hash result of the input when outputting the result. For example in the recruitment decision phase, the enclave returns the recruitment decision along with a hash of the input provided by the TEE node. This hash is secured by remote attestation, which will be then verified on the blockchain. If a TEE node provides fake information, there will be a hash mismatch, and the TEE node will be punished for malicious events. 
### Recruitment Decision Phase

In the recruitment phase, the incentive mechanism obtains workers’ bids and determines the recruitment online. A worker i’s bid θi is decrypted using skT EE inside the enclave, and the state of the tasks (i.e., the left budget) is acquired from the blockchain which is also encrypted. The incentive mechanism is designed to maximize the value function under the budget, which should satisfy the following properties: r Computational efficiency: An incentive mechanism M is computationally efficient if the recruitment decision and the payment can be computed in a polynomial time when each worker bids. r Individual rationality: Each worker has a non-negative utility when bidding its true cost, i.e., for ∀i ∈ W, ui ≥ 0. r Truthfulness: An incentive mechanism is cost-truthful if no workers can improve its utility by submitting a false cost. In other words, submitting a bidding price equaling the true cost is a weakly dominant strategy for a bidder. An incentive mechanism is time-truthful if no workers can improve its utility by strategically determining the arrival time and departure time. An incentive mechanism is truthful if it is both cost- and time-truthful. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7144 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 Algorithm 1: OBIM. Input: worker set W, task set Γ, bid profile θ, budget B, beginning time t0 , time period length T0 , and deadline T Output: winner set S and payment profile P B , ∅, ∅, ε, 0, ∅; 1: T , B , S, S , ρ, P, O ← 2 logT 2 T , 2 log 2T 2: t ← 1; 3: while t ≤ T do 0 = t − 1 do 4: for all worker i ∈ W that aiT−t 0 5: O ← O ∪ {i}; O ← O\S; 6: end for 7: while O = ∅ do 8: i ← arg maxe∈O Ve (S);  9: if bi ≤ Viρ(S) ≤ B − e∈S pe then 10: 11: 12: 13: 14: 15: 16: 17: 18: 19: 20: 21: 22: 23: 24: 25: 26: 27: 28: 29: 30: 31: 32: 33: 34: 35: pi ← Viρ(S) ; S ← S ∪ {i}; else pi ← 0; end if O ← O \{i}; end while 0 = t − 1 do for all worker i ∈ W that diT−t 0 O ← O\{i}; S ← S ∪ {i}; end for if t = T then ) ; S ← ∅; i ← arg maxe∈S Veb(S e (S ·B ) while bi ≤ VVi(S ∪{i}) do S ← S ∪ {i}; ) i ← arg maxe∈S \S Veb(S ; e end while (S ) ; T ← 2T ; B ← 2B ; O ← O; ρ ← Vδ·B while O = ∅ do i ← arg maxe∈O Ve (S\{e});  ≤ B − e∈S pe + pi and if bi ≤ Vi (S\{i}) ρ Vi (S\{i}) ≥ pi then ρ Vi (S\{i}) pi ← ; ρ if i ∈ / S then S ← S ∪ {i}; end if O ← O \{i}; end while end if update W, θ and output current S; //enclave interacts with blockchain through TEE node 36: t ← t + 1; 37: end while r Budget feasibility: An incentive mechanism is budget feasible if the total payment is lower or equal to the budget B, i.e., i∈S pi ≤ B. In our case, we consider that the value function V (S) is a submodular, and monotone function, whose definition is given in Definition 1. The specific expression of V (S) is not defined in our scheme and can be adjusted according to the specific requirements of the scenario, as long as it satisfies the aforementioned properties. The assumption of the optimization objective’s submodularity is normal in crowdsensing covering most scenarios [18], [40], [41], [60], which can be applied to many real applications. Definition 1 (Submodular, monotone function): If Ω is a finite set, a submodular, monotone function is a set function f : 2Ω → R, which satisfies one of the following equivalent conditions: 1) For each X, Y ⊆ Ω with X ⊆ Y and each x ∈ Ω\Y , we have f (X ∪ {x}) − f (X) ≥ f (Y ∪ {x}) − f (Y ). 2) For each X, Y ⊆ Ω we have f (X) + f (Y ) ≥ f (X ∪ Y ) + f (X ∩ Y ). 3) For each X ⊆ Ω and x1 , x2 ∈ Ω\X (x1 = x2 ), we have f (X ∪ {x1 }) + f (X ∪ {x2 }) ≥ f (X ∪ {x1 , x2 }) + f (X); and satisfies the following equation: For each X, Y ⊆ Ω with X ⊆ Y , we have f (X) ≤ f (Y ). To supply all the demands mentioned above, we introduce the Online Budget-feasible Incentive Mechanism (OBIM) proposed by Zhao [42] to recruit workers in this phase, i.e., determining the winners and calculating the payments, which is illustrated in Algorithm 1. The designed incentive mechanism runs before the bidding phase and keeps running until the recruitment phase ends. The recruitment procedure is divided into time stages, where bidders in a time stage will be determined by the incentive mechanism at the end of the stage. At the end of each time stage, the recruitment decision (i.e., updated winner set S) calculated in this stage is returned to the blockchain from the enclave for worker notification. Besides, the current state of other parameters in the incentive mechanism is encrypted using pkT EE and sent to the blockchain as well, so that if the current TEE fails, other TEEs can continue the work from the last time stage with the saved parameters by combining key shares and recovering the secret key. Then, the TEE node provides the information of new arriving workers (i.e., updated W and θ) to the enclave as the input of the mechanism in the next stage. This continues until the time ends. The basic idea of OBIM is to transform the online setting into an offline setting through the partition of both time and budget so that a greedy selection of workers can be applied. Besides, departure workers are collected as samples to better select winners with higher values in the following time stages. The density threshold ρ is updated at the end of all time stages, which is initialized as a constant ε and controls the recruitment accuracy of workers. The number of time stages is calculated as log2 T + 1, where T is the deadline of the bidding phase. l−1 A stage l ends at time step 22log2TT . Correspondingly, the budget l−1 for time stage l is set as 22log2BT . At the beginning of each time step t, all workers that have arrived will be collected and added to the worker set O (lines 4–6). O denotes the unrecruited worker set. Recruitment decision is made greedily according to the calculated marginal value on unrecruited workers (lines 7–15), where a winner’s payment is set as the marginal value divided by density threshold ρ, and a losing worker’s payment is 0. At the end of the time step, workers who have departed will be excluded from the worker set O and added into the sample set S (lines 16–18), which is utilized in the update of density threshold. Specially, if the current time step t is at the end of a time stage, i.e., t = T (line 19), the density threshold ρ will be updated (lines 20–24). Then, a similar procedure of recruitment Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN decision is operated on a worker set including both recruited winners and unrecruited workers (lines 27–31). If a winner is selected again and obtains a higher payment, his/her payment will be updated. According to Theorem 2 in [42], we have the following theorem. Theorem 1: OBIM is computationally efficient, individual rational, truthful, and budget feasible. Since OBIM is run inside the trusted enclave, no detail of the calculation procedure can be known from outside. At the end of OBIM, the output, i.e., winner set S and payment profile P will be sent and recorded on the blockchain publicly available, without leaking any further information including workers’ bidding price and task set, ensuring privacy. Workers can check the results to see if they are recruited, where winners ought to perform the sensing tasks and finish the submission. 
### Data Aggregation Phase

After data submission phase, all submitted data are encrypted and saved on IPFS. Then, the data aggregation phase needs to collect all submitted data and make the aggregation to find the truth for sensing tasks. Considering the ubiquitous usage against various sensing tasks, confidence-aware truth discovery method (CATD) [61] is adopted in this phase, which is a classical algorithm for longtail data process considering the relation between a worker’s reliability and the probability of his/her outputting high-quality data. However, our scheme supports arbitrary truth discovery methods that can run inside the trusted enclave, outperforming many schemes that rely on specific truth discovery algorithms. For example, Paillier Cryptosystem can only be utilized for privacy-preserving computation in terms of addition and scalar multiplication, which means it is not applicable in truth discovery with vector multiplication. The procedure of data aggregation is illustrated in Algorithm 2, which consists of data decryption, truth discovery, and result encryption. First, the encrypted data are decrypted using the shared encryption key eko (lines 2–5). Then, the truth set T is initialized before the truth discovery begins. The truth discovery includes weight estimation (lines 9–11) and truth estimation (lines 13–16), which runs until convergence. The weight of each worker is estimated as the difference between the submitted data and the estimated truth, where χ is the Chi-squared distribution, α is a significance constant, and χ2( α ,|Γi |) is the coefficient for 2 adjusting workers’ weight. The truth for each task is estimated using the submitted data and weights of workers. After the truth discovery, the obtained truth set will be encrypted using the requester’s public key pkr and sent to the blockchain as the output. Then, each worker will be evaluated according to the calculated weight as “high” or “low” with an evaluation threshold δ (lines 18–25). E denotes the set of workers’ evaluation results. Workers evaluated as “low” are judged as malicious and will be punished and no payment will be offered. Workers evaluated as “high” are assumed to be normal workers which will obtain the payment as calculated. 7145 Algorithm 2: Data Aggregation Procedure. Input: encrypted data SEeko (xi,j ), TEE’s secret key skT EE , one-time public key pko Output: encrypted truth set Epkr (T ), evaluation set E 1: //Decrypting the data 2: eko ← skT EE · pko ; 3: for all i ∈ S and γj ∈ Γ do 4: xi,j ← SDeko (SEeko (xi,j )); 5: end for 6: Initilize truth set T ; 7: while not convergence do 8: //Estimating the weight 9: for all i ∈ S do χ2( α ,|Γi |) 2  ; 10: ωi ← 2 γj ∈Γi (xi,j − Tj ) 11: end for 12: //Estimating the truth Γ do 13: for all γj ∈ i∈W ωi · xi,j  j ; 14: Tj ← i∈Wj ωi 15: end for 16: end while 17: //Evaluating the workers 18: E ← 0; 19: for all i ∈ S do 20: if ωi ≥ δ then 21: Ei ← “high”; 22: else 23: Ei ← “low”; 24: end if 25: end for The value of δ is calculated based on the sample set, which contains sensing data for a series of tasks and the corresponding ground truth for those tasks. The workers’ weights are computed based on this sample set, and an appropriate δ will be chosen such that the weights of malicious workers and a small number of lowquality workers are below δ, while the weights of the majority of normal workers are above this threshold. After the crowdsensing system completes some tasks, δ will also be adjusted accordingly based on the results. 
## ANALYSIS OF PRIVACY GOALS

Prevention of free-riding and false-reporting attacks. Malicious workers may launch a free-riding attack to obtain payment with less effort (than normal workers) or even no effort through the following misbehaviors: (1) Making a fake bid. If a worker gives a false task set which includes tasks that he/she cannot accomplish and the worker is recruited, he/she will be unable to offer high-quality data to pass the evaluation procedure, thus the payment of the dishonest worker will be canceled. If a worker gives a false bidding price unequal to the true cost, he/she still cannot improve the utility as OBIM is cost-truthful according to Theorem 1. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7146 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 (2) Arriving at the crowdsensing system strategically. Since our system is under an online setting, workers arriving at different time can face different recruitment situations. However, Theorem 1 proves that OBIM is time-truthful, which means workers cannot increase their utility by arriving within a different time period. (3) Submitting false sensing data. If a worker submits data that are false, useless, and far from the ground truth, the weight of the worker will be quite low in the data aggregation phase and the worker will be evaluated as “low”. Such workers will obtain no payment. As a result, our scheme prevents free-riding attacks. Malicious requesters may launch a false-reporting attack to obtain the sensing data with less payment (than normal requesters) or even no payment. However, the requester has to make a deposit of B + penalty when releasing a task set, and the payment will perform automatically after the data aggregation phase, thus requesters have no way to obtain sensing data unlawfully. Besides, if a requester is assumed to be malicious, the deposit will be confiscated. Therefore, our scheme also prevents false-reporting attacks. Prevention of malicious TEE nodes. Malicious TEE nodes might attempt to compromise the protocol by tampering with the messages exchanged between the enclave and the blockchain. If a TEE node manipulates the output of the enclave, the remote attestation generated by the TEE will fail to be verified on the blockchain, thereby revealing the malicious behaviors of the TEE node and leading to its punishment. In the cases where a TEE node tampers with the input to the enclave, the discrepancy will be detected when the enclave returns the hash result of the input. During smart contract verification, a hash mismatch will indicate the TEE node’s malicious activity. If a TEE node deliberately delays the input to the enclave or fails to execute the required computational task, the task will not be completed within the specified time period, which will result in the TEE node being marked as faulty and replaced by other inactive TEE nodes. Therefore, the two-phase online incentive protocol effectively defends against the malicious behaviors of TEE nodes. No single point of failure and no trusted third party. The proposed blockchain-based crowdsensing architecture does not suffer single point of failure under the assumption that most miners are honest. Besides, the design of usage of TEE nodes is stateless and robust, which can defend the threat that TEE nodes can be attacked and paralyzed with the key sharing procedure under the assumption that at least k TEE nodes are available within l + 1 nodes totally. Thus our design is exempted from single point of failure. In our design, miners, requesters, and workers can be malicious while TEE nodes are semi-honest. The crowdsensing procedure relies on the functioning of blockchain and trusted hardware (i.e., enclave), without reliance on any trustworthy third party. Sealed private information. Workers’ bids are protected from all potential adversaries in our design. Bids have the risk of privacy disclosure in the bidding phase. A worker i’s bid θi = {Γi , bi } is encrypted as EpkT EE (θi ) = {EpkT EE (Γi )||EpkT EE (bi )} and sent to the blockchain for storage when bidding. Since we assume that the adopted cryptographic method (i.e., asymmetric encryption) is secure, EpkT EE (θi ) will disclose no useful information about the true value of θi , unless owing the corresponding secret key skT EE , which is stored inside the trusted enclave. Besides, information inside the enclave cannot be obtained from outside forwardly, thus workers’ bids are protected from privacy leakage. Worker participation anonymity. Since the bids, which includes workers’ task sets, are protected, anonymity is ensured in the bidding phase. In the data submission phase and data aggregation phase, the submitted data of a worker are encrypted using the encryption key eko = HASH(sko · pkT EE ) which is shared only between the worker and trusted enclave that cannot be acquired by anyone else, so that the encrypted data cannot be accessed by entities excluding the enclave under the assumption of adopted symmetric encryption’s security. Similarly, the enclave secures the secret key and the process of data, thus the anonymity of workers’ participation is guaranteed thoroughly in the proposed scheme. Data aggregation privacy. During the data submission phase, the sensing data is encrypted using eko , a key that can only be computed by the worker submitting the data and the enclave within the TEE node possessing skT EE . This ensures the security of the sensing data. The data aggregation process runs inside the enclave. The aggregation process, based on the CATD algorithm, efficiently calculates the ground truth for each crowdsensing task and determines the weight of each worker, reflecting the quality of the provided data. As a result, the data aggregation process in this study is secure and can evaluate the quality of the workers. This enables the system to penalize workers who maliciously provide low-quality data. 
## PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

### Experimental Setup

We implement a prototype system of the proposed scheme based on Hyperledger Fabric v2.3 and Intel SGX. The experiment runs on a Ubuntu 20.04 virtual machine, whose host machine is a Windows machine equipped with an Intel i5-8350 U 1.70 GHz CPU and 16 GB memory. The SGX driver version is 1.41, and the SDK version is 2.13. The smart contract, referred to as “chaincode” in Hyperledger Fabric, is written in JavaScript. Ed25519 is chosen as the public key signature scheme, with SHA-512 as the hash function. AES-256 is selected as the symmetric encryption algorithm for the data submission phase. In the incentive mechanism OBIM, the parameters are set as follows: the value function V (S) is defined as the task coverage value, expressed as V (S) = m  j=1 min{βj ,  zi,j }, (6) i∈S where zi,j = 1 if γj ∈ Γi , and 0 otherwise. βj is the coverage requirement of task γj , which is randomly selected from [1, 5]. The number of workers n is set to 50, and the number of tasks m is set to 20. The number of tasks per worker is randomly selected from [5, 10]. Bids are randomly chosen from an auction Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN 7147 TABLE II DEFAULT SETTINGS OF PARAMETERS IN OBIM Fig. 5. Execution time of phases vs. number of requests: (a) Task Posting/ Bidding/Payment (b) Recruitment Decision/Data Submission/Data Aggregation Fig. 4. Average on-chain time cost of contracts vs. number of transactions: (a) Task Posting/Bidding/Payment (b) Incentive Machanism/Data Submission/Data Aggregation. dataset [62], using only bids within the range of [100, 500]. The initialization constant ε is set to 0.8. Table II lists the default settings of the parameters in OBIM. 
### Time Cost of Contracts

The two-stage privacy-preserving incentive scheme primarily includes the following phases: initialization phase, task release phase, bidding phase, recruitment decision phase, data submission phase, data aggregation phase, and payment phase. These processes are all implemented through smart contracts. Additionally, the initialization phase, which includes the initialization of the blockchain, is not suitable for measuring specific time consumption and is therefore not considered in this context. First, the time cost of smart contracts in each phase is measured, and the results are shown in Fig. 4. Among these, the contracts for recruitment decisions and data aggregation are executed within the TEE, while the others are smart contracts on the blockchain. As the number of transactions increases, a corresponding rise in the average execution time of each smart contract is observed. This phenomenon can be attributed to the fact that the performance capacity of the blockchain remains unchanged despite the growing number of transactions, resulting in prolonged processing time for each smart contract managing these transactions. The time costs of all contracts are plotted in two figures according to their order of magnitude. From Fig. 4(a), it can be observed that the time costs of the Task Release Contract, Bidding Contract, and Payment Contract are relatively low, each remaining under 35 ms. In contrast, Fig. 4(b) demonstrates that the time costs of the Incentive Mechanism Contract, Data Submission Contract, and Data Aggregation Contract are considerably higher. However, even when the number of transactions reaches 200, the average execution time for these contracts remains below 300 ms. Additionally, it is important to note that the incentive mechanism and data aggregation are executed within the TEE and are only activated at specific intervals, thereby minimizing the likelihood of such intensive usage in practical applications. Overall, the time costs of the smart contracts is relatively minimal, primarily due to the exclusion of complex cryptographic methods, with the scheme employing only basic encryption and decryption techniques. This ensures high system performance. When compared to other schemes that incorporate advanced cryptographic methods, the two-stage online incentive protocol demonstrates superior performance while maintaining an even higher level of privacy protection. 
### Time Cost of Each Phase

After evaluating the performance of smart contracts, the time cost of requests executed in different phases is measured. Unlike transactions, requests refer to the calls initiated by the client to invoke a contract. The execution time encompasses the contract processing time, the time taken by the application on the client side, and the time spent on communication. The time taken for each phase is illustrated in Fig. 5. It can be observed that with the increase in concurrency, the execution time for each phase increases linearly. Similarly, the data are plotted in two figures based on the magnitude of the values. In Fig. 5(a), the execution time for the task submission, bidding, and payment phases are relatively short, with transactions completed within 3.5 seconds even when 200 transactions are initiated simultaneously. Conversely, the execution time for the recruitment decision, data submission, and data aggregation phases are significantly longer, as shown in Fig. 5(b),. This is because the incentive mechanism and data aggregation algorithms operate within TEE, requiring interaction with smart contracts, which is a significant factor in time consumption. Additionally, the data submission phase involves data encryption and storage in IPFS, which also takes time. However, considering the relatively low number of requests in practical use and the privacy protection requirements to be met, this level of time consumption is acceptable. Moreover, this time consumption is considerably lower compared to methods that employ advanced cryptographic techniques. 
### Performance of OBIM

This subsection evaluates the performance of OBIM. In addition to utilizing the objective function V (S) and execution time as performance metrics, we introduce the overpayment ratio to assess the scheme’s cost-efficiency. The overpayment Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7148 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 TABLE III PERFORMANCE OF OBIM UNDER DIFFERENT n ratio is defined as the total payment divided by the total cost,  p mathematically expressed as i∈S bii . i∈S Given that OBIM functions as an online incentive mechanism, it inherently poses challenges in measuring its time efficiency. To address this, the arrival and departure time of all workers are used as parameters and aggregated to compile comprehensive worker information, thereby treating the entire system as an offline model. This approach enables the continuous operation of OBIM, facilitating the measurement of the total time required to complete all time periods. The impact of the number of workers. The number of workers varies from 20 to 200 to evaluate the performance of OBIM. As shown in Table III, with a constant number of tasks, the value of the objective function exhibits a gradual upward trend as the number of workers increases. This is because an increase in the number of workers provides the incentive mechanism with a larger pool of workers to choose from, enabling it to select winners with higher marginal value, thereby maximizing the objective function. The same rationale also accounts for the rise in the overpayment ratio. The execution time of the incentive mechanism increases exponentially with the number of workers. This is primarily due to the excessive time consumption during the final time step of each time phase (i.e., at τ = T ), where it is necessary to update the density threshold ρ and the workers’ payments. When the number of workers becomes large, the time consumption of the incentive mechanism may seem substantial. However, in practical online scenarios, the time spent in each period is relatively short, and the number of workers handled in each period is minimal. As a result, the incentive mechanism operates much faster in practice. The impact of the number of tasks. To investigate the impact of task quantity on the performance of OBIM, the number of tasks varies from 20 to 200, with the results presented in Table IV. It is evident that as the number of tasks increases, the value of V (S) also exhibits an upward trend. This is attributed to the fact that an increase in the number of tasks m results in a greater number of terms in the summation of V (S). As long as the task completion requirement Rk is non-zero, the overall V (S) will increase. Furthermore, with the increase in the number of tasks, the overpayment ratio experiences some fluctuations (due to the high TABLE IV PERFORMANCE OF OBIM UNDER DIFFERENT m Fig. 6. Comparison of errors of truth discovery algorithms. randomness in the dataset employed by the incentive mechanism), yet it generally remains around 160% . This indicates that OBIM is a relatively frugal incentive mechanism. The execution time of the algorithm demonstrates a linear increase with the number of tasks. 
### Performance of Data Aggregation

Finally, we evaluate the performance of the data aggregation algorithm using the publicly available Emotion dataset [63]. Each task in the Emotion dataset includes a text and a range of scores from [−100, 100], requiring each worker to rate the text within this range to indicate the intensity of the emotion (e.g., anger). Higher scores signify a greater intensity of the emotion. The dataset comprises 7,000 data points, including 700 tasks and 38 workers. The dataset also provides the ground truth value for each task, facilitating the evaluation of the algorithm’s performance. Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and Mean Absolute Error (MAE) are utilized as evaluation metrics. RMSE measures the square root of the average squared differences between the predicted values and the true values, whereas MAE represents the average absolute differences between the predicted values and the true values. Mean and Median methods are used as baseline algorithms for comparison. The Emotion dataset is divided into subsets of varying sizes, specifically 1,000, 2,000, up to 7,000 data points. Each subset is then processed using three different truth discovery algorithms, and their performance is evaluated. The experimental results are depicted in Fig. 6. Generally, as the number of tasks increases, the errors of all three methods also increase. When the number of tasks is relatively small, the CATD Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN 7149 REFERENCES Fig. 7. Overall runtime and time per iteration of the data aggregation under different data volumes algorithm utilized in this study exhibits superior performance, with MAE and RMSE values significantly lower than those of the Mean and Median. Additionally, the effect of data volume on the data aggregation algorithm’s runtime is examined. Based on the previously partitioned dataset subsets, the overall runtime and per-iteration time required for the truth discovery process are measured. The experimental results are shown in Fig. 7. As the data volume increases, it becomes apparent that the algorithm’s overall runtime tends to increase. This trend occurs because with larger data volumes, the time per iteration increases, and there is also an upward trend in the number of iterations. For smaller data volumes, the CATD algorithm demonstrates high efficiency. The figure shows that when the data volume is less than or equal to 6,000, the algorithm converges rapidly and produces results within 1 s. Furthermore, the time required for each iteration exhibits a linear relationship with the number of tasks, consistent with the theoretical properties of the algorithm. In conclusion, the data aggregation algorithm employed in this study shows excellent performance, yielding estimated truth values close to the ground truth with minimal time consumption. Given the typical data volumes in practical crowdsensing tasks, the data aggregation process proposed in this study is well-suited to meet practical demands. 
## CONCLUSION

In this paper, we proposed an incentive scheme for mobile crowdsensing based on blockchain and TEE. We built a crowdsensing system architecture through combination of blockchain and TEE, based on online reverse auction. Our system design ensures security, privacy, and robustness against potential attacks. Then, we presented the detailed design of the incentive scheme. Specifically, we designed the TEE node architecture with a key sharing procedure to ensure robustness and security. A two-stage incentive scheme, including the online budget-feasible incentive mechanism and the data aggregation procedure, was proposed for crowdsensing. Our scheme was proven to satisfy the desired properties and secure against attacks and privacy goals. We evaluated the performance of the proposed scheme based on the Hyperledger Fabric platform and Intel SGX, and the obtained results showed that the performance of our mechanism had great superiority compared to existing schemes. [1] A. I. Middya, P. Dey, and S. Roy, “IoT-Based Crowdsensing for Smart Environments,” in Internet of Things for Smart Environments. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2022, pp. 33–58. [2] D. Wu et al., “When sharing economy meets IoT: Towards fine-grained urban air quality monitoring through mobile crowdsensing on bike-share system,” in Proc. ACM Interactive, Mobile, Wearable Ubiquitous Technol., 2020, pp. 1–26. [3] M. Li, L. Zhu, and X. Lin, “Privacy-preserving traffic monitoring with false report filtering via fog-assisted vehicular crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 14, no. 6, pp. 1902–1913, Nov./Dec. 2021. [4] A. S. El-Wakeel, J. Li, A. Noureldin, H. S. Hassanein, and N. Zorba, “Towards a practical crowdsensing system for road surface conditions monitoring,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 5, no. 6, pp. 4672–4685, Dec. 2018. [5] Q. Ren et al., “Resource allocation and slicing strategy for multiple services co-existence in wireless train communication network,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 401–414, Jan. 2025. [6] R. Pryss, “Mobile crowdsensing in healthcare scenarios: Taxonomy, conceptual pillars, smart mobile crowdsensing services,” in Digital Phenotyping and Mobile Sensing. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2023, pp. 305–320. [7] R. Kraft et al., “Combining mobile crowdsensing and ecological momentary assessments in the healthcare domain,” Front. Neurosci., vol. 14, 2020, Art. no. 164. [8] D. Bonino, M. T. D. Alizo, C. Pastrone, and M. Spirito, “WasteApp: Smarter waste recycling for smart citizens,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Multidisciplinary Conf. Comput. Energy Sci., 2016, pp. 1–6. [9] F. Wu et al., “Characterizing internet card user portraits for efficient churn prediction model design,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 1735–1752, Feb. 2024. [10] M. Li et al., “CrowdBC: A blockchain-based decentralized framework for crowdsourcing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 1251–1266, Jun. 2019. [11] Y. Guo, H. Xie, Y. Miao, C. Wang, and X. Jia, “FedCrowd: A federated and privacy-preserving crowdsourcing platform on blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 2060–2073, Jul./Aug. 2022. [12] F. Wu, F. Lyu, H. Wu, J. Ren, Y. Zhang, and X. Shen, “Characterizing user association patterns for optimizing small-cell edge system performance,” IEEE Netw., vol. 37, no. 3, pp. 210–217, May/Jun. 2023. [13] W. Wang et al., “BSIF: Blockchain-based secure, interactive, and fair mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 3452–3469, Dec. 2022. [14] W. Wang et al., “Privacy protection federated learning system based on blockchain and edge computing in mobile crowdsourcing,” Comput. Netw., vol. 215, 2022, Art. no. 109206. [15] W. Wang, Y. Wang, P. Duan, T. Liu, X. Tong, and Z. Cai, “A triple realtime trajectory privacy protection mechanism based on edge computing and blockchain in mobile crowdsourcing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 22, no. 10, pp. 5625–5642, Oct. 2023. [16] X. Zhang et al., “Incentives for mobile crowd sensing: A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surv. Tut., vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 54–67, First Quarter 2016. [17] “Amazon mechanical turk,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://worker. mturk.com [18] J. Xu, Y. Zhou, G. Chen, Y. Ding, D. Yang, and L. Liu, “Topic-aware incentive mechanism for task diffusion in mobile crowdsourcing through social network,” ACM Trans. Internet Technol., vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 1–23, 2021. [19] J. Lu, Z. Zhang, J. Wang, R. Li, and S. Wan, “A green Stackelberg-game incentive mechanism for multi-service exchange in mobile crowdsensing,” ACM Trans. Internet Technol., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1–29, 2021. [20] G. Yang, S. He, Z. Shi, and J. Chen, “Promoting cooperation by the social incentive mechanism in mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 86–92, Mar. 2017. [21] X. Liang, Z. Yan, and R. Kantola, “GAIMMO: A grade-driven auctionbased incentive mechanism with multiple objectives for crowdsourcing managed by blockchain,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 18, pp. 17488–17502, Sep. 2022. [22] Q. Jiang et al., “Blockchain-based efficient incentive mechanism in crowdsensing,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Artif. Intell. Secur., Springer, 2022, pp. 120–132. [23] R. Zhao, L. T. Yang, D. Liu, X. Deng, and Y. Mo, “A tensor-based truthful incentive mechanism for blockchain-enabled space-air-ground integrated vehicular crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 2853–2862, Mar. 2022. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 7150 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 8, AUGUST 2025 [24] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, E. Tromer, and M. Virza, “Succinct noninteractive zero knowledge for a von Neumann architecture,” in Proc. USENIX Secur. Symp., 2014, pp. 781–796. [25] J. H. Cheon, A. Kim, M. Kim, and Y. Song, “Homomorphic encryption for arithmetic of approximate numbers,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Theory Appl. cryptol. Inf. Secur., Springer, 2017, pp. 409–437. [26] D. Evans et al., “A pragmatic introduction to secure multi-party computation,” Found. Trends Privacy Secur., vol. 2, no. 2/3, pp. 70–246, 2018. [27] H. Wu, B. Düdder, L. Wang, S. Sun, and G. Xue, “Blockchain-based reliable and privacy-aware crowdsourcing with truth and fairness assurance,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 3586–3598, Mar. 2022. [28] M. R. Dorsala, V. Sastry, and S. Chapram, “Fair payments for privacypreserving aggregation of mobile crowdsensing data,” J. King Saud Univ.Comput. Inf. Sci., vol. 34, no. 8, pp. 5478–5492, 2022. [29] J. An, Z. Wang, X. He, X. Gui, J. Cheng, and R. Gui, “PPQC: A blockchainbased privacy-preserving quality control mechanism in crowdsensing applications,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 1352–1367, Jun. 2022. [30] R. Yu, A. M. Oguti, D. R. Ochora, and S. Li, “Towards a privacy-preserving smart contract-based data aggregation and quality-driven incentive mechanism for mobile crowdsensing,” J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 207, 2022, Art. no. 103483. [31] M. Sabt, M. Achemlal, and A. Bouabdallah, “Trusted execution environment: What it is, and what it is not,” IEEE Trustcom/BigDataSE/ISPA, vol. 1, pp. 57–64, 2015. [32] A. Savelyev, “Contract law 2.0: ‘Smart’ contracts as the beginning of the end of classic contract law,” Inf. Commun. Technol. Law, vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 116–134, 2017. [33] V. Costan and S. Devadas, “Intel SGX explained,” Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2016. [Online]. Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/086. [34] Y. Xu, W. Cui, and M. Peinado, “Controlled-channel attacks: Deterministic side channels for untrusted operating systems,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy, 2015, pp. 640–656. [35] M.-W. Shih, S. Lee, T. Kim, and M. Peinado, “T-SGX: Eradicating controlled-channel attacks against enclave programs,” in Proc. Netw. Distrib. Syst. Secur. Symp., 2017, pp. 1-15. [Online]. Available: https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss2017/ndss-2017-programme/tsgx-eradicating-controlled-channel-attacks-against-enclave-programs/. [36] S. Lee, M.-W. Shih, P. Gera, T. Kim, H. Kim, and M. Peinado, “Inferring fine-grained control flow inside SGX enclaves with branch shadowing,” in Proc. USENIX Secur. Symp., 2017, pp. 557–574. [37] F. Brasser, S. Capkun, A. Dmitrienko, T. Frassetto, K. Kostiainen, and A.-R. Sadeghi, “DR. SGX: Hardening SGX enclaves against cache attacks with data location randomization,” 2017, arXiv: 1709.09917. [38] V. Costan, I. Lebedev, and S. Devadas, “Sanctum: Minimal hardware extensions for strong software isolation,” in Proc. USENIX Secur. Symp., 2016, pp. 857–874. [39] X. Zhang, G. Xue, R. Yu, D. Yang, and J. Tang, “Truthful incentive mechanisms for crowdsourcing,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., 2015, pp. 2830–2838. [40] D. Yang, G. Xue, X. Fang, and J. Tang, “Incentive mechanisms for crowdsensing: Crowdsourcing with smartphones,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 1732–1744, Jun. 2016. [41] X. Zhang, Z. Yang, Z. Zhou, H. Cai, L. Chen, and X. Li, “Free market of crowdsourcing: Incentive mechanism design for mobile sensing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 3190–3200, Dec. 2014. [42] D. Zhao, X.-Y. Li, and H. Ma, “How to crowdsource tasks truthfully without sacrificing utility: Online incentive mechanisms with budget constraint,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., 2014, pp. 1213–1221. [43] L. Xie, Z. Su, N. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Liu, and R. Li, “A privacy-preserving incentive scheme for data sensing in app-assisted mobile edge crowdsensing,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 4765–4780, Dec. 2024. [44] J. An et al., “Privacy-preserving user recruitment with sensing quality evaluation in mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 787–803, Jan./Feb. 2025. [45] C. Zhang, M. Zhao, L. Zhu, W. Zhang, T. Wu, and J. Ni, “FRUIT: A blockchain-based efficient and privacy-preserving quality-aware incentive scheme,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 3343–3357, Dec. 2022. [46] F. Restuccia, N. Ghosh, S. Bhattacharjee, S. K. Das, and T. Melodia, “Quality of information in mobile crowdsensing: Survey and research challenges,” ACM Trans. Sensor Netw., vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 1–43, 2017. [47] J. Wang, M. Li, Y. He, H. Li, K. Xiao, and C. Wang, “A blockchain based privacy-preserving incentive mechanism in crowdsensing applications,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 17545–17556, 2018. [48] M. He, J. Ni, D. Liu, H. Yang, and X. Shen, “Private, fair, and verifiable aggregate statistics for mobile crowdsensing in blockchain ERA,” in Proc. IEEE/CIC Int. Conf. Commun. China, 2020, pp. 160–165. [49] H. Duan, Y. Zheng, Y. Du, A. Zhou, C. Wang, and M. H. Au, “Aggregating crowd wisdom via blockchain: A private, correct, and robust realization,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Pervasive Comput. Commun., 2019, pp. 1–10. [50] R. Yuan, Y.-B. Xia, H.-B. Chen, B.-Y. Zang, and J. Xie, “ShadowEth: Private smart contract on public blockchain,” J. Comput. Sci. Technol., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 542–556, 2018. [51] R. Cheng et al., “Ekiden: A platform for confidentiality-preserving, trustworthy, and performant smart contracts,” in Proc. IEEE Eur. Symp. Secur. Privacy, 2019, pp. 185–200. [52] M. Li, Y. Chen, C. Lal, M. Conti, F. Martinelli, and M. Alazab, “Nereus: Anonymous and secure ride-hailing service based on private smart contracts,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2849–2866, Jul./Aug. 2023. [53] R. Li, Q. Wang, Q. Wang, D. Galindo, and M. Ryan, “SoK: Tee-assisted confidential smart contract,” 2022, arXiv:2203.08548. [54] Y. Liang, Y. Li, and B.-S. Shin, “Blockchain and trusted execution environment based fairness incentive mechanism in crowdsensing,” in Proc. Adv. Multimedia Ubiquitous Eng., Springer, 2021, pp. 33–39. [55] M. Brahem, G. Scerri, N. Anciaux, and V. Issarny, “Consent-driven data reuse in multi-tasking crowdsensing systems: A privacy-by-design solution,” Pervasive Mobile Comput., vol. 83, 2022, Art. no. 101614. [56] Y. Liang, Y. Li, and B.-S. Shin, “Private decentralized crowdsensing with asynchronous blockchain access,” Comput. Netw., vol. 213, 2022, Art. no. 109088. [57] Y. Li et al., “A survey on truth discovery,” ACM Sigkdd Explorations Newslett., vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 1–16, 2016. [58] J. Benet, “IPFS - content addressed, versioned, P2P file system,” 2014, arXiv:1407.3561. [59] A. Shamir, “How to share a secret,” Commun. ACM, vol. 22, no. 11, pp. 612–613, 1979. [60] J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, H. Wu, and W. Li, “An ordered submodularity-based budget-feasible mechanism for opportunistic mobile crowdsensing task allocation and pricing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 1278–1294, Feb. 2024. [61] Q. Li et al., “A confidence-aware approach for truth discovery on long-tail data,” Proc. VLDB Endowment, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 425–436, 2014. [62] “Modeling online auctions,” 2024. [Online]. Available: www. modelingonlineauctions.com/datasets [63] R. Snow, B. O’connor, D. Jurafsky, and A. Y. Ng, “Cheap and fast–but is it good? Evaluating non-expert annotations for natural language tasks,” in Proc. Conf. Empirical Methods Natural Lang. Process., 2008, pp. 254– 263. Yuanhang Zhou received the bachelor’s degree from the School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, China, in 2021. He is currently working toward the MS degree with the school of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing. His main research interests include mobile crowdsensing, blockchain, and applied cryptography. Fei Tong (Member, IEEE) received the MS degree in computer engineering from Chonbuk National University, South Korea, in 2011, and the PhD degree in computer science from the University of Victoria (UVic), Canada, in 2016. From December 2016 to December 2018, he was a postdoctoral research fellow with the Department of Control Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University. He is currently an associate professor with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University. He is also the vice director of Jiangsu Provincial Engineering Research Center of Security for Ubiquitous Network. His research interests include ad hoc networks, Internet of Things, and ubiquitous networking intelligence and security. He was the Young Researcher of the third Heidelberg Laureate Forum, a track co-chair for IEEE VTC2020-Fall, and a session chair for ICPADS2020, IEEE HPSR2019, and EAI QShine2016. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. ZHOU et al.: TOWARDS EFFICIENT, ROBUST, AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING INCENTIVES FOR CROWDSENSING VIA BLOCKCHAIN Chunming Kong received the bachelor’s degree from the Bell Honors School, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, China in 2023. He is currently working toward the master’s degree in the school of cyber science and engineering with Southeast University, Nanjing. His research primarily focuses on mobile crowdsensing, blockchain technologies, and data de-identification. Shibo He (Senior Member, IEEE) is a professor with the College of Control Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, China. He also serves as the director of the Collaborative Innovation Center for Industrial Cyber-Physics Systems, which is jointly established by the provincial and ministerial authorities, and as the deputy director of the Industrial Control Research Institute. His research focuses on the Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data analytics. He has published more than 200 academic papers, including in internationally renowned journals, such as PNAS, Nature Communications, IEEE Transactions on Networking, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, etc, as well as flagship conferences like ACM CCS, ACM MobiHoc, IEEE INFOCOM, and IEEE RTSS. He has authored two textbooks and three academic monographs. His research has been cited more than 9,300 times by peers on Google Scholar, with more than 4,000 citations in the Web of Science Core Collection. He has received several prestigious awards, including the Mid-career Research Achievement Award from the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing, the Young Scientist Award from the Ministry of Education of China, the First Prize in Natural Science from the Ministry of Education of China, the Outstanding Young Researcher Award from the IEEE Communications Society in the Asia-Pacific region, and Best Paper Awards of six international conferences, including IEEE GlobeCom and IEEE TrustCom. He has also served as an editorial board member for five journals and as a Program Committee Chair/track Chair for conferences, such as IEEE Globecom, i-SPAN, IEEE ICC, and ScalCom. 7151 Guang Cheng (Member, IEEE) received the BS degree in traffic engineering from Southeast University, in 1994, the MS degree in computer application from the Hefei University of Technology, in 2000, and the PhD degree in computer Network from Southeast University, in 2003. He is a full professor in the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, China. He has authored or coauthored eight monographs, and produced more than 100 technical papers, including top journals and top conferences like IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, and INFOCOM. His research interests include network security, network measurement, and traffic behavior analysis. He is the director of Jiangsu Cyber Security Association, China, the vice director of China Computer Federation Technical Committee of Internet (CCF TCI), and the vice director of Jiangsu Computer Society, China. He is a Distinguished member of CCF. Authorized licensed use limited to: Hong Kong Baptist University. Downloaded on January 05,2026 at 02:54:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 